

Hodder & Stoughton

LONDON   SYNDEY   AUCKLAND   TORONTO


British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
King, Stephen, 1947 —

It.

I. Title 813'.54[F]       PS3561.I483
ISBN 0-340-36477-7

Copyright  ©  1986  by  Stephen  King.  First  printed  1986.  Third  
impression  October  1986.  All  rights
reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any 
form or by any means,
electronic  or  mechanical,  including  photocopy,  recording,  or  any  
information  storage  and  retrieval
system,  without  permission  in  writing  from  the  publisher.  Printed  in  
Great  Britain  for  Hodder  and
Stoughton  Limited,  Mill  Road,  Dunton  Green,  Sevenoaks,  Kent  by  The  
Garden  City  Press  Limited,
Letchworth, Herts. Photoset by Rowland Phototypesetting Limited, Bury St 
Edmunds, Suffolk. Hodder
and Stoughton Editorial Office: 47 Bedford Square, London WC1B 3DP.


Grateful   acknowledgment   is   made   for   permission   to   reprint   
excerpts   from   the   following
copyrighted material:

'My Town' by Michael Stanley. © 1983 by Bema Music Co./Michael Stanley Music 
Co.

'The  Return  of  the  Exile'  from  Poems  by  George  Seferis.  Translation  
copyright  ©  1960  by
Rex Warner. Reprinted by permission of David R. Godine, Publisher, Inc.

'My  My  Hey  Hey'  by  Neil  Young  and  Jeff  Blackburn.  ©  1979  Silver  
Fiddle.  Used  by
permission of Warner Bros. Ltd. All rights reserved.

Paterson  by William Carlos Williams. Copyright © 1946, 1948, 1949, 1951, 1958. 
Copyright

© Florence Williams, 1963. Reprinted by permission of Penguin Books Ltd.

'No Surrender,' 'Glory Days,' and 'Born in the U.S.A.' by Bruce Springsteen. © 
1984 Bruce
Springsteen. ASCAP. All rights reserved.

'I  Heard  It  Through  the  Grapevine'  words  and  music  by  Norman  
Whitfield  and  Barren  Strong.

©   1966   Jobete   Music  Co.,  Inc.  Used  by  permission.  International  
copyright  secured.  All
rights reserved.

'The Rubberband-Man' by Tom Bell and Linda Creed. © 1976 Mighty Three Music.
Administered and reprinted by kind permission of Island Music Ltd.

'Splish  Splash'  by  Bobby  Darin  and  Jean  Murray.  ©  1958  Unart  Music  
Corp.  ©  renewed
1986  CBS  Catalogue  Partnership.  All  rights  controlled  and  administered  
by  Good  Music  Ltd.
All rights reserved. International copyright secured. Used by permission.

Books  of  Blood,   Volume  I  by  Clive  Barker.  Copyright  ©  1984.  
Reprinted  by  permission  of
Sphere Books Ltd.

'Summertime   Blues'   by   Eddie   Cochran   and   Jerry   Capehart.   ©   
1958   Warner-Tamerlane
Publishing   Corp.,   Rightsong   Music,   Elvis   Presley   Music   and   
Gladys   Music.   Used   by
permission of Intersong Music Ltd. All rights reserved.

'Earth  Angel.'  ©  1954,  renewal  1982  by  Dootsie  Williams  Publications.  
Recorded  by  the
Penguins, Dootone Records.

'Do-Re-Mi'  by  Richard  Rodgers  and  Oscar  Hammerstein  II.  Copyright  ©  
1959  by  Richard
Rodgers  and  Oscar  Hammerstein  II.  Williamson  Music  Co.,  owner  of  
publication  and  allied
rights   throughout   the   Western   Hemisphere   and   Japan.   International 
  copyright   secured.   All
rights reserved. Used by permission of Williamson Music Ltd., London.

'Mean Streets,' a film by Martin Scorcese. © 1973 Warner Bros. Inc. All rights 
reserved.

'Don't It Make You Wanta Go Home' by Joe South. Copyright © 1969 by Lowery 
Music Co.,
Inc., Atlanta, GA. International copyright secured. All rights reserved. Used 
by permission.

'Here's   to   the   State   of  Richard  Nixon'  by  Phil  Ochs.  ©  Barricade 
 Music  Inc.  Used  with
permission of Warner Bros. Ltd. All rights reserved.

'Whole Lot of Shakin' Goin' On' by David Curlee Williams. Used by permission.

'Rock  and  Roll  is  Here  To  Stay'  by  David  White.  Published  by  Golden 
 Egg  Music/Singular
Music. By permission of American Mechanical Rights Agency Inc.

'Bristol  Stomp'  words  and  music  by  Kal  Mann  and  Dave  Appell.  ©  1961 
 Kalmann  Music,
Inc.

'It's  Still  Rock  and  Roll  to  Me'  by  Billy  Joel.  ©  1980  Impulsive  
Music/CBS  Songs  Ltd. Used

by permission.

'Light  My  Fire"  words  and  music  by  The  Doors.  ©  1967  Doors  Music  
Company.  All  rights
reserved. Used by permission.

'My   Toot   Toot'   by   Sidney   Simien.   ©   1985   Flat   Town   Music   
Company   and   Sid-Sim

Publishing Company. All rights reserved. Used by permission.

'Tutti Frutti' by Dorothy La Bostrie and Richard Penniman. © 1955, ATV Music. 
Used by
permission.


'Diana'   by   Paul   Anka.   Copyright   ©   1957,   1963,   renewed   1985   
by   Spanka   Music
Corp./Management   Agency   and   Music   Publishing,   Inc.   International  
copyright  secured.  All
rights reserved. Reproduced by permission.

'High  School  Confidential"  by  Ron  Hargrave  and  Jerry  Lee  Lewis.  By  
permission  of  Carlin
Music Corp.

'Travelogue  for  Exiles'  from Collected  Poems  1940-1978  by  Karl  Shapiro. 
 Copyright  ©  1942

and  renewed  1970  by  Karl  Shapiro.  Reprinted  by  permission  of  Random  
House,  Inc.  'You
'Got  to  Lose'  words  and  music  by  Earl  Hooker.  ©  Copyright  1969  by  
Duchess  Music
Corporation.  Rights  administered  by  MCA  Music  Ltd.,  London.  Used  by  
permission.  All
rights reserved.

'The Girl Can't Help It If the Menfolks Stop and Stare' words and music by 
Robert W. Troup.

©  1956  Twentieth  Century  Music  Corp.,  renewed  1984  Robert  W.  Troup.  
Assigned  1984
London-town Music, Inc.

'Don't  Back  Down'  by  Brian  Wilson.  ©  1964  Irving  Music,  Inc.  (BMI).  
All  rights  reserved.

International copyright secured.

'Surfin'  U.S.A.'  music  by  Chuck  Berry,  words  by  Brian  Wilson.  
Copyright  ©  1958,  1963  by
Arc  Music  Corporation.  Reprinted  by  permission  of  Jewel  Music  Co.,  
Ltd.,  London.  All
rights reserved.

'Sh-Boom  (Life  Could  Be  a  Dream)'  by  James  Keyes,  Claude  Feaster,  
Carl  Feaster,  Floyd  F.
McRae,  and  James  Edwards.  Copyright  ©  1954  by  Progressive  Music  
Publishing  Co.,  Inc.
Used by permission of Carlin Music Corporation.

'I Knew the Bride When  She Used to Rock 'n' Roll' by Nick Lowe. © Anglo Rock 
Inc. Used

with permission.


This book is gratefully dedicated to my children.
My mother and my wife taught me how to be a
man. My children taught me how to be free.

NAOMI RACHEL KING, at fourteen;
JOSEPH HILLSTROM KING, at twelve;

OWEN PHILIP KING, at seven.

Kids, fiction is the truth inside the lie, and the
truth of this fiction is simple enough: the magic
exists.

S.K.


'This  old  town  been  home  long  as  I  remember
This  town  gonna  be  here  long  after  I'm  gone.
East  side  west  side  take  a  close  look  'round  her
You been down but you're still in my bones.'

— The Michael Stanley Band

'Old friend, what are you looking for?
After those many years abroad you come
With images you tended

Under foreign skies

Far away from your own land.'

— George Seferis

'Out of the blue and into the black.'

— Neil Young


CONTENTS

PART 1: THE SHADOW BEFORE

1   After the Flood (1957)

2   After the Festival (1984)

3   Six Phone Calls (1985)

Derry: The First Interlude

PART 2: JUNE OF 1958

4   Ben Hanscom Takes a Fall

5   Bill Denbrough Beats the Devil - I

6   One of the Missing: A Tale from the Summer of '58

7   The Dam in the Barrens

8   Georgie's Room and the House on Neibolt Street

9   Cleaning Up

Derry: The Second Interlude

PART 3: GROWNUPS

10   The Reunion

11   Walking Tours

12   Three Uninvited Guests

Derry: The Third Interlude

PART 4: JULY OF 1958

13   The Apocalyptic Rockfight

14   The Album

15   The Smoke-Hole

16   Eddie's Bad Break

17   Another One of the Missing:
The Death of Patrick Hockstetter

18   The Bullseye

Derry: The Fourth Interlude


PART 5: THE RITUAL OF CHÜD

19   In the Watches of the Night

20   The Circle Closes

21    Under the City

22   The Ritual of Child

23   Out

Derry: The Last Interlude

EPILOGUE:

BILL DENBROUGH BEATS THE DEVIL - II


'They begin!

The perfections are sharpened

The flower spreads its colored petals
wide in the sun

But the tongue of the bee

misses them

They sink back into the loam
crying out

— you may call it a cry

that creeps over them, a shiver
as they wilt and disappear         '

— William Carlos Williams,

Paterson

"Born down in a dead man's town"

— Bruce Springsteen


C H A P T E R  1

After the Flood (1957)

1

The terror, which  would not end for another twenty-eight years — if it ever 
did end  — began,
so  far  as  I  know  or  can  tell,  with  a  boat  made  from  a  sheet  of  
newspaper  floating  down  a
gutter swollen with rain.

The  boat  bobbed,  listed,  righted  itself  again,  dived  bravely  through  
treacherous  whirlpools,
and  continued  on  its  way  down  Witcham  Street  toward  the  traffic  
light  which  marked  the
intersection  of  Witcham  and  Jackson.  The  three  vertical  lenses  on  all 
 sides  of  the  traffic  light
were  dark this afternoon in the fall of  1957,  and the houses were all dark, 
too. There had been
steady rain for a week now, and two days ago the winds had come as well. Most 
sections of
Derry had lost their power then, and it was not back on yet.

A  small  boy  in  a  yellow  slicker  and  red  galoshes ran cheerfully along 
beside the newspaper
boat.  The  rain  had  not  stopped,  but  it  was  finally  slackening.  It  
tapped  on  the  yellow  hood  of
the  boy's  slicker,  sounding  to  his  ears  like  rain  on  a  shed  roof  . 
 .  .  a  comfortable,  almost  cozy
sound.  The  boy  in  the  yellow  slicker  was  George  Denbrough.  He  was  
six.  His  brother,
William,  known  to  most  of  the  kids  at  Derry  Elementary  School  (and  
even  to  the  teachers,
who  would  never  have  used  the  nickname  to  his  face)  as  Stuttering  
Bill,  was  at  home,
hacking  out  the  last  of  a  nasty  case  of  influenza.  In  that  autumn  
of  1957,  eight months before
the  real  horrors  began  and  twenty-eight  years  before  the  final  
showdown,  Stuttering  Bill  was
ten years old.

Bill  had  made  the  boat  beside  which  George  now  ran.  He  had  made  ti 
sitting up in bed, his
back  propped  against  a  pile  of  pillows,  while  their  mother  played  
Für Elise  on the piano in
the parlor and rain swept restlessly against his bedroom window.

About  three-quarters  of  the  way  down  the  block  as  one  headed  toward  
the intersection and
the  dead  traffic  light,  Witcham  Street  was  blocked  to  motor  traffic  
by  smudgepots  and  four
orange  sawhorses.  Stencilled  across  each  of  the  horses  was  DERRY  
DEPT.  OF  PUBLIC  WORKS.
Beyond  them,  the  rain  had  spilled  out  of  gutters  clogged  with  
branches  and  rocks  and  big
sticky  piles  of  autumn  leaves.  The  water  had  first  pried  fingerholds  
in  the  paving  and  then
snatched  whole  greedy  handfuls   —  all  of  this  by  the  third  day  of  
the  rains.  By  noon  of  the
fourth  day,  big  chunks  of  the  street's  surface  were  boating  through  
the  intersection  of  Jackson
and  Witcham  like  miniature  white-water  rafts.  By  that  time,  many  
people  in  Derry  had  begun
to  make  nervous  jokes  about  arks.  The  Public  Works  Department  had  
managed  to  keep
Jackson  Street  open,  but  Witcham  was  impassable  from  the  sawhorses  
all  the  way  to  the
center of town.

But,  everyone  agreed,  the  worst  was  over.  The  Kenduskeag  Stream  had  
crested  just  below
its   banks   in   the   Barrens   and   bare   inches   below   the   concrete 
  sides   of   the   Canal   which

channelled  it  tightly  as  it  passed  through  downtown.  Right  now  a  
gang  of  men  —  Zack
Denbrough,  George's  and  Bill's  father,  among  them  —  were  removing  the 
 sandbags  they  had
thrown  up  the  day  before  with  such  panicky  haste.  Yesterday  overflow  
and  expensive  flood
damage  had  seemed  almost  inevitable.  God  knew  it  had  happened  before  
 —  the flooding in
1931  had  been  a  disaster  which  had  cost  millions  of  dollars  and  
almost  two  dozen  lives.  That
was  a  long  time  ago,  but  there  were  still  enough  people  around  who  
remembered  it to scare
the  rest.  One  of  the  flood  victims  had  been  found  twenty-five  miles  
east,  in  Bucksport.  The


fish  had  eaten  this  unfortunate  gentleman's  eyes,  three  of  his  
fingers,  his  penis,  and  most  of
his left foot. Clutched in what remained of his hands had been a Ford steering 
wheel.

Now,  though,  the  river  was  receding,  and  when  the  new  Bangor  Hydro  
dam  went  in
upstream,  the  river  would  cease  to  be  a  threat.  Or  so  said  Zack  
Denbrough,  who  worked  for
Bangor  Hydroelectric.  As  for  the  rest  —  well,  future  floods  could  
take  care  of  themselves.
The thing was to get through this one, to get the power back on, and then to 
forget it. In Derry
such  forgetting  of  tragedy  and  disaster  was  almost  an  art,  as  Bill  
Denbrough  would  come  to
discover in the course of time.

George  paused  just  beyond  the  sawhorses  at  the  edge  of  a  deep  
ravine  that  had  been  cut

through  the  tar  surface  of  Witcham  Street.  This  ravine  ran  on  an  
almost  exact  diagonal.  It
ended  on  the  far  side  of  the  street,  roughly  forty  feet  farther  
down  the  hill from where he now
stood, on the right. He laughed aloud  —  the  sound  of  solitary,  childish  
glee  a  bright  runner  in
that gray afternoon  —  as a vagary of the flowing water took his paper boat 
into a scale -model

rapids  which  had  been  formed  by  the  break  ni   the  tar.  The  urgent  
water  had  cut  a  channel

which  ran  along  the  diagonal,  and  so  his  boat  travelled  from  one  
side  of  Witcham  Street  to
the  other,  the  current  carrying  it  so  fast  that  George  had  to  
sprint  to  keep  up  with  it.  Water
sprayed  out  from  beneath  his  galoshes  in  muddy  sheets.  Their  buckles  
made  a  jolly  jingling
as  George  Denbrough  ran  toward  his  strange  death.  And  the  feeling  
which  filled  him  at  that
moment  was  clear  and  simple  love  for  his  brother  Bill  .  .  .  love  
and  a  touch  of  regret  that  Bill
couldn't  be  here  to  see  this  and  be  a  part  of  it.  Of  course  he  
would  try  to  describe  it  to  Bill
when  he  got  home,  but  he  knew  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  make  Bill  
see  it, the way Bill would
have  been  able  to  make  him  see  it  if  their  positions  had  been  
reversed.  Bill  was  good  at
reading  and  writing,  but  even  at  his  age George was wise enough to know 
that wasn't the only
reason  why  Bill  got  all  A's  on  his  report  cards,  or  why  his  
teachers  liked  his  compositions  so
well. Telling was only part of it. Bill was good at seeing.

The  boat  nearly  whistled  along  the  diagonal  channel,  just  a  page  
torn  from  the  Classified

section of the Derry  News,  but now George imagined it as a FT boat in a war 
movie, like the
ones  he  sometimes  saw  down  at  the  Derry  Theater  with  Bill  at 
Saturday  matinees.  A  war
picture  with  John  Wayne  fighting  the  Japs.  The  prow  of  the  newspaper 
 boat  threw  sprays  of
water  to  either  side  as  it  rushed  along,  and  then  it  reached  the  
gutter  on  the  left  side  of
Witcham  Street.  A  fresh  streamlet  rushed  over  the  break  in  the  tar  
at  this  point,  creating  a
fairly  large  whirlpool,  and  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  boat  must  be  
swamped  and  capsize.  It
leaned  alarmingly,  and  then  George  cheered  as  it  righted  itself,  
turned,  and  went  racing  on
down  toward  the  intersection.  George  sprinted  to  catch  up.  Over  his  
head,  a  grim  gust  of
October  wind  rattled  the  trees,  now  almost  completely  unburdened  of  
their  freight  of  colored
leaves by the storm, which had been this year a reaper of the most ruthless 
sort.

2

Sitting  up  in  bed,  his  cheeks  still  flushed  with  heat  (but  his  
fever,  like  the  Kenduskeag,  finally
receding),  Bill  had  finished  the  boat  —  but  when  George  reached  for  
it,  Bill  held  it  out  of
reach. 'N-Now get me the p-p-paraffin.'

'What's that? Where is it?'

'It's  on  the  cellar  shuh-shuh-shelf  as  you  go  d-downstairs,'  Bill  
said.  'In  a  box  that  says
Guh-Guh-hulf . . .  Gulf.  Bring that to me, and a knife, and a b-bowl.  And  a 
 puh-pack of muh-
muh-matches.'

George  had  gone  obediently  to  get  these  things.  He  could  hear  his  
mother  playing  the
piano, not  Für Elise  now but something else he didn't like so well  — 
something that sounded
dry  and  fussy;  he  could  hear  rain  flicking  steadily  against  the  
kitchen  windows.  These  were


comfortable  sounds,  but  the  thought  of  the  cellar  was  not  a  bit  
comfortable.  He  did  not  like
the  cellar,  and  he  did  not  like  going  down  the  cellar  stairs,  
because  he  always  imagined  there
was  something  down  there  in  the  dark.  That  was  silly,  of  course,  
his  father  said  so  and  his
mother said so and, even more important, Bill said so, but still —

He  did  not  even  like  opening  the  door  to  flick  on  the  light  
because  he  always  had  the  idea

—  this  was  so  exquisitely  stupid  he  didn't  dare  tell  anyone   —  that 
 while  he  was  feeling  for
the  light  switch,  some  horrible  clawed  paw  would  settle  lightly  over  
his  wrist  .  .  .  and  then
jerk him down into the darkness that smelled of dirt and wet and dim rotted 
vegetables.

Stupid!  There  were  no  things  with  claws,  all  hairy  and  full  of  
killing  spite.  Every  now  and

then  someone  went  crazy  and  killed  a  lot  of  people   —  sometimes  
Chet  Huntley  told  about
such  things  on  the  evening  news  —  and  of  course  there  were  Commies, 
 but  there  was  no
weirdo   monster   living   down   in   their   cellar.   Still,   this   idea  
 lingered.   In   those   interminable
moments  while  he  was  groping  for  the  switch  with  his  right  hand  
(his  left  arm  curled  around
the  doorjamb  in  a  deathgrip),  that  cellar  smell  seemed  to  intensify  
until  it  filled  the  world.
Smells   of   dirt   and   wet   and   long-gone   vegetables   would   merge   
into   one   unmistakable
ineluctable  smell,  the  smell  of  the  monster,  the  apotheosis  of  all  
monsters.  It  was  the  smell  of
something  for  which  he  had  no  name:  the  smell  of  It,  crouched  and  
lurking  and  ready  to
spring.  A creature which would eat anything but which was especially hungry 
for boymeat.

He  had  opened  the  door  that  morning  and  had  groped  interminably  for  
the  switch,  holding
the  jamb  in  his  usual  deathgrip,  his  eyes  squinched  shut,  the  tip  
of  his  tongue  poked  from  the
corner  of  his  mouth  like  an  agonized rootlet searching for water in a 
place of drought. Funny?
Sure!  You  betcha!  Lookit  you,  Georgie!  Georgie's  scared  of  the  dark!  
What  a  baby!  The
sound  of  the  piano  came  from  what  his  father  called  the  living  room 
 and  what  his  mother
called  the  parlor.  It  sounded  like  music  from  another  world,  far  
away,  the  way  talk  and
laughter  on  a  summer-crowded  beach  must  sound  to  an  exhausted  swimmer 
 who  struggles
with the undertow.

His fingers found the switch! Ah!
They snapped it —

— and nothing. No light.

Oh, cripes! The power!

George snatched his arm back as if from a basket filled with snakes. He stepped 
back from
the  open  cellar  door,  his  heart  hurrying  in  his  chest.  The  power  
was  out,  of  course  — he had
forgotten  the  power  was  out.  Jeezly-crow!  What  now?  Go  back  and  tell 
 Bill  he  couldn't  get
the    box  of  paraffin  because  the  power  was  out  and  he  was  afraid  
that  something  might  get
him as he stood on the cellar stairs, something that wasn't a Commie or a mass 
murderer but a
creature   much   worse  than  either?  That  it  would  simply  slither  part  
of  its  rotted  self  up
between the stair risers and grab his ankle? That would go over big, wouldn't 
it? Others might
laugh  at  such  a  fancy,  but  Bill  wouldn't  laugh.  Bill  would  be  mad.  
Bill  would  say,  'Grow  up,
Georgie . . . do you want this boat or not?'

As  if  this  thought  were  his  cue,  Bill  called  from  his  bedroom:  'Did 
 you  d-d-die out there,
Juh-Georgie?'

'No,  I'm  gettin  it,  Bill,'  George  called  back  at  once.  He  rubbed  at 
 his  arms,  trying  to  make

the  guilty  gooseflesh  disappear  and  be  smooth  skin  again.  'I  just  
stopped  to  get  a  drink  of
water.'

'Well, h-hurry up!'

So  he  walked  down  the  four  steps  to  the  cellar  shelf,  his  heart  a  
warm,  beating  hammer  in
his  throat,  the  hair  on  the  nape  of  his  neck  standing  at  attention, 
 his  eyes  hot,  his  hands  cold,
sure  that  at  any  moment  the  cellar  door  would  swing  shut  on  its  
own,  closing  off  the  white
light  falling  through  the  kitchen  windows,  and  then  he  would  hear  
It,  something  worse  than
all the Commies  and  murderers  in  the  world,  worse  than  the  Japs,  
worse  than  Attila  the Hun,


worse  than  the  somethings  in  a  hundred  horror  movies.  It,  growling  
deeply  —  he  would  hear
the growl in those lunatic seconds before it pounced on him and unzipped his 
guts.

The  cellar-smell  was  worse  than  ever  today,  because  of  the  flood.  
Their  house  was  high  on
Witcham Street, near the crest of the hill, and they had escaped the worst of 
it, but there was
still  standing  water  down  there  that  had  seeped  in  through  the  old  
rock  of undations. The smell
was low and unpleasant, making you want to take only the shallowest breaths.

George  sifted  through  the  junk  on  the  shelf  as  fast  as  he  could  —  
old  cans  of  Kiwi
shoepolish   and   shoepolish   rags,   a   broken   kerosene   lamp,   two   
mostly   empty   bottles   of
Windex,  an  old  flat  can  of  Turtle  wax.  For  some  reason  this  can  
struck  him,  and  he  spent
nearly  thirty  seconds  looking  at  the  turtle  on  the  lid  with  a  kind  
of  hypnotic  wonder.  Then  he
tossed it back . . . and here it was at last, a square box with the word GULF 
on it.

George snatched it and ran up the stairs as fast as he could, suddenly aware 
that his shirttail

was  out  and  suddenly  sure  that  his  shirttail  would  be  his  undoing:  
the  thing  in  the  cellar
would allow him to get almost all the  way out, and then it would grab the tail 
of his shirt and
snatch him back and —

He  reached  the  kitchen  and  swept  the  door  shut  behind  him.  It  
banged  gustily.  He  leaned
back  against  it  with  his  eyes  closed,  sweat  popped  out  on  his  arms  
and  forehead,  the box of
paraffin gripped tightly in one hand.

The  piano  had  come  to  a  stop,  and  his  mom's  voice  floated  to  him:  
'Georgie,  can't  you  slam
that  door  a  little  harder  next  time?  Maybe  you  could  break  some  of  
the  plates  in  the  Welsh
dresser, if you really tried.'

'Sorry, Mom,' he called back.

'Georgie,  you  waste,'  Bill  said  from  his  bedroom.  He  pitched  his  
voice  low  so  their  mother
would not hear.

George  snickered  a  little.  His  fear  was  already  gone;  it  had  slipped 
 away  from  him  as
easily  as  a  nightmare  slips  away  from  a  man  who  awakes,  cold 
-skinned and gasping, from its
grip;  who  feels  his  body  and  stares  at  his  surroundings  to  make  
sure  that  none  of  it  ever
happened  and  who  then  begins  at  once  to  forget  it.  Half  is  gone  by 
 the  time  his  feet  hit the
floor;  three-quarters  of  it  by  the  time  he  emerges  from  the  shower  
and  begins  to  towel  off;  all
of  it  by  the  time  he  finishes  his  breakfast.  All  gone  .  .  .  until 
 the  next  time,  when,  in  the  grip
of the nightmare, all fears will be remembered.

That  turtle,   George  thought,  going  to  the  counter  drawer  where  the  
matches  were  kept.

Where did I see a turtle like that before?

But no answer came, and he dismissed the question.

He  got  a  pack  of  matches  from  the  drawer,  a  knife  from  the  rack  
(holding  the  sharp  edge
studiously  away  from  his  body,  as  his  dad  had  taught  him),  and  a  
small  bowl  from  the  Welsh
dresser in the dining room. Then he went back into Bill's room.

'W-What  an  a-hole   you   are,   Juh-Georgie,'  Bill  said,  amiably  enough, 
 and  pushed  back
some  of  the  sick-stuff  on  his  nighttable:  an  empty  glass,  a  pitcher  
of water, Kleenex, books, a
bottle  of  Vicks  VapoRub   —  the  smell  of  which  Bill  would  associate  
all  his  life  with  thick,

phlegmy  chests  and  snotty  noses.  The  old  Philco  radio  was  there,  ot 
o, playing not Chopin or

Bach  but  a  Little  Richard  tune  .  .  .  very  softly,  however,  so  
softly  that  Little  Richard  was
robbed  of  all  his  raw  and  elemental  power.  Their  mother,  who  had  
studied  classical  piano  at
Juilliard, hated rock and roll. She did not merely dislike it; she abominated 
it.

'I'm  no  a-hole,'  George  said,  sitting  on  the  edge  of  Bill's  bed  and 
 putting  the  things  he  had
gathered on the nighttable.

'Yes you are,' Bill said. 'Nothing but a great big brown a-hole, that's you.'

George  tried  to  imagine  a  kid  who  was  nothing  but  a  great  big  
a-hole on legs and began to
giggle.

'Your a-hole is bigger than Augusta,' Bill said, beginning to giggle, too.


'Four  a-hole  is  bigger  than  the  whole  state,'  George  replied.  This  
broke  both  boys  up for
nearly two minutes.

There  followed  a  whispered  conversation  of  the  sort  which  means  very  
little  to  anyone
save  small  boys:  accusations  of  who  was  the  biggest  a-hole,  who  had  
the  biggest  a-hole,
which  a-hole  was  the  brownest,  and  so  on.  Finally  Bill said one of the 
forbidden words  — he
accused  George  of  being  a  big  brown  shitty  a-hole  —  and  they  both  
got  laughing  hard.  Bill's
laughter  turned  into  a  coughing  fit.  As  it  finally  began  to  taper  
off  (by  then  Bill's  face  had
gone  a  plummy  shade  which  George  regarded  with  some  alarm),  the  
piano  stopped  again.
They  both  looked  in  the  direction  of  the  parlor,  listening  for  the  
piano-bench to scrape back,
listening   for   their   mother's   impatient   footsteps.   Bill   buried   
his   mouth   in   the   crook   of   his
elbow,  stifling  the  last  of  the  coughs,  pointing  at  the  pitcher  at  
the  same  time.  George  poured
him   a glass of water, which he drank off.

The  piano  began  once  more  —  Für Elise  again. Stuttering Bill never 
forgot that piece, and
even  many  years  later  it  never  failed  to  bring  gooseflesh  to  his  
arms  and  back;  his  heart
would drop and he would remember: My mother was playing that the day Georgie 
died.

'You gonna cough anymore, Bill?'
'No.'

Bill  pulled  a  Kleenex  from  the  box,  made  a  rumbling  sound  in  his  
chest, spat phlegm into
the  tissue,  screwed  it  up,  and  tossed  it  into  the  wastebasket  by  
his  bed,  which  was  filled  with
similar  twists  of  tissue.  Then  he  opened  the  box  of  paraffin  and  
dropped  a  waxy  cube  of  the
stuff  into  his  palm.  George  watched  him  closely,  but  without  speaking 
 or  questioning.  Bill
didn't  like  George  talking  to  him  while  he  did  stuff,  but  George  
had  learned  that  if  he  just
kept his mouth shut, Bill would usually explain what he was doing.

Bill  used  the  knife  to  cut  off  a  small  piece  of  the  paraffin  cube. 
 He  put  the  piece  in  the
bowl,  then  struck  a  match  and  put  it  on  top  of  the  paraffin.  The  
two  boys  watched  the  small
yellow flame as the dying wind drove rain against the window in occasional 
spatters.

'Got  to  waterproof  the  boat  or  it'll  just  get  wet  and  sink,'  Bill  
said.  When  he  was  with
George, his stutter was light  —  sometimes  he  didn't  stutter  at  all.  In 
school, however, it could
become  so  bad  that  talking  became  impossible  for  him.  Communication  
would  cease  and
Bill's  schoolmates  would  look  some where  else  while  Bill  clutched  the  
sides  of  his  desk,  his
face  growing  almost  as  red  as  his  hair,  his  eyes  squeezed  into  
slits  as  he  tried  to  winch  some
word  out  of  his  stubborn  throat.  Sometimes  —  most  times  —  the  word  
would  come.  Other
times it simply refused. He had been hit by a car when he was three and knocked 
into the side
of  a  building;  he  had  remained  unconscious  for  seven  hours.  Mom  said 
 it  was  that  accident
which  had  caused  the  stutter.  George  sometimes  got  the  feeling  that  
his  dad  —  and  Bill
himself — was not so sure.

The piece of paraffin in the bowl was almost entirely melted.

The  match-flame  guttered  lower,  growing  blue  as  it  hugged  the  
cardboard  stick,  and  then  it
went  out.  Bill  dipped  his  finger  into  the  liquid,  jerked  it  out  
with  a  faint  hiss.  He  smiled
apologetically  at  George.  'Hot,'  he  said.  After  a  few  seconds  he  
dipped  his  finger  in  again  and
began to smear the wax along the sides of the boat, where it quickly dried to a 
milky haze.

'Can I do some?' George asked.

'Okay. Just don't get any on the blankets or Mom'll kill you.'

George  dipped  his  finger  into  the  paraffin,  which  was  now  very  warm  
but  no  longer  hot,
and began to spread it along the other side of the boat.

'Don't put on so much, you a-hole!' Bill said. 'You want to sink it on its 
m-maiden cruise?'

'I'm sorry.'

'That's all right. Just g-go easy.'

George  finished  the  other  side,  then  held  the  boat  in  his  hands.  It 
 felt  a  little  heavier,  but
not much. 'Too cool,' he said. 'I'm gonna go out and sail it.'


'Yeah, you do that,' Bill said. He suddenly looked tired — tired and still not 
very well.

'I  wish  you  could  come,'  George  said.  He  really  did.  Bill  sometimes  
got  bossy  after  awhile,
but he always had the coolest ideas and he hardly ever hit. 'It's your boat, 
really.'

'She,' Bill said. 'You call boats sh-she.'

'She, then.'

'I wish I could come, too,' Bill said glumly.

'Well . . . ' George shifted from one foot to the other, the boat in his hands.

'You  put  on  your  rain-stuff,'  Bill  said,  'or  you'll  wind  up  with  
the  fluh-hu like me. Probably
catch it anyway, from my juh-germs.'

'Thanks,  Bill.  It's  a  neat  boat.'  And  he  did  something  he  hadn't  
done  for  a  long  time,
something Bill never forgot: he leaned over and kissed his brother's cheek.

'You'll  catch  it  for  sure  now,  you  a-hole,'  Bill  said,  but  he  
seemed  cheered  up  all  the  same.

He smiled at George. 'Put all this stuff back, too. Or Mom'll have a b-bird.'

'Sure.'  He  gathered  up  the  waterproofing equipment and crossed the room, 
the boat perched
precariously on top of the paraffin box, which was sitting askew in the little 
bowl.

'Juh juh-Georgie?'

George turned back to look at his brother.
'Be c-careful.'

'Sure.'  His  brow  creased  a  little.  That  was  something  your  mom  said, 
 not  your  big  brother.

It was as strange as him giving Bill a kiss. 'Sure I will.'
He went out. Bill never saw him again.

3

Now  here  he  was,  chasing  his  boat  down  the  left  side  of  Witcham  
Street.  He  was  running fast
but  the  water  was  running  faster  and  his  boat  was  pulling  ahead.  He 
 heard  a  deepening  roar
and  saw  that  fifty  yards  farther  down  the  hill  the  water  in  the  
gutter  was  cascading  into  a
stormdrain  that  was  still  open.  Ii  was  a  long  dark  semicircle  cut  
into  the  curbing,  and  as
George  watched,  a  stripped  branch,  its  bark  as  dark  and  glistening  
as  sealskin,  shot  into  the
stormdrain's  maw.  It  hung  up  there  for  a  moment  and  then  slipped  
down  inside.  That  was
where   his boat was headed.

'Oh shit and Shinola!' he yelled, dismayed.

He  put  on  speed,  and  for  a  moment  he  thought  he  would  catch  the  
boat.  Then  one  of  his
feet  slipped  and  he  went  sprawling,  skinning  one  knee  and  crying  out 
 in  pain.  From  his  new
pavement-level  perspective  he  watched  his  boat  swing  around  twice,  
momentarily  caught  in
another whirlpool, and then disappear.

'Shit  and  Shinola!'  he  yelled  again,  and  slammed  his  fist  down  on  
the  pavement.  That  hurt
too, and he began to cry a little. What a stupid way to lose the boat!

He got  up  and  walked  over  to  the  stormdrain.  He  dropped  to  his  
knees  and  peered  in.  The
water  made  a  dank  hollow  sound  as  it  fell  into  the  darkness.  It  
was  a  spooky  sound.  It
reminded him of —

'Huh!' The sound was jerked out of him as if on a string, and he recoiled.

There  were  yellow  eyes  in  there:  the  sort  of  eyes  he  had  always  
imagined  but  never
actually  seen  down  in  the  basement.  It's  an  animal,   he  thought  
incoherently,  that's  all  it  is,
some animal, maybe a housecat that got stuck down in there —

Still,  he  was  ready  to  run —  would  run  in  a  second  or  two,  when  
his  mental  switchboard
had  dealt  with  the  shock  those  two  shiny  yellow  eyes  had  given  him. 
 He  felt  the  rough
surface  of  the  macadam  under  his  fingers,  and  the  thin  sheet  of  
cold  water  flowing around


them.  He  saw  himself  getting  up  and  backing  away,  and  that  was  when 
 a  voice  — a perfectly
reasonable and rather pleasant voice — spoke to him from inside the stormdrain.

'Hi, Georgie,' it said.

George   blinked   and   looked   again.   He   could   barely   credit   what  
 he   saw;   it   was   like
something  from  a  made-up  story,  or  a  movie  where  you  know  the  
animals  will  talk  and
dance. If he had been ten years older, he would not have believed what he was 
seeing, but he
was not sixteen. He was six.

There was  a clown in the stormdrain. The light in there was far from good, but 
it was good
enough so that George Denbrough was sure of what he was seeing. It was a clown, 
like in the
circus  or  on  TV.  In  fact  he  looked  like  a  cross  between  Bozo  and  
Clarabell,  who  talked by
honking  his  (or  was  it  her?   —  George  was  never  really  sure  of  the 
 gender)  horn  on  Howdy
Doody  Saturday mornings  —  Buffalo  Bob  was  just  about  the  only  one  
who  could  understand
Clarabell,  and  that  always  cracked  George  up.  The  face  of  the  clown  
in  the  stormdrain was
white,  there  were  funny  tufts  of  red  hair  on  either  side  of  his  
bald  head,  and  there  was  a  big
clown-smile  painted  over  his  mouth.  If  George  had  been  inhabiting  a  
later  year,  he  would
have  surely thought of Ronald McDonald before Bozo or Clarabell.

The clown held a bunch of balloons, all colors, like gorgeous ripe fruit in one 
hand.
In the other he held George's newspaper boat.

'Want your boat, Georgie?' The clown smiled.

George  smiled  back.  He  couldn't  help  it;  it  was  the  kind of smile you 
just had to answer. 'I
sure do,' he said.

The clown laughed. '"I sure do." That's good! That's very good! And how about a 
balloon?'

'Well  .  .  .  sure!'  He  reached  forward  .  .  .  and  then  drew  his  
hand  reluctantly  back.  'I'm  not
supposed to take stuff from strangers. My dad said so.'

'Very  wise  of  your  dad,'  the  clown  in  the  stormdrain  said,  smiling.  
How, George wondered,
could I have thought his eyes were yellow?  They were a bright, dancing blue, 
the color of his
mom's  eyes,  and  Bill's.  'Very  wise  indeed.  Therefore  I  will  introduce 
 myself.  I,  Georgie,  am
Mr   Bob   Gray,   also   known   as   Pennywise   the   Dancing   Clown.   
Pennywise,   meet   George
Denbrough.  George,  meet  Pennywise.  And  now  we  know  each  other.  I'm  
not  a  stranger  to
you,     and you're not a stranger to me. Kee-rect?'

George  giggled.  'I  guess  so.'  He  reached  forward  again  .  .  .  and  
drew  his  hand  back  again.
'How did you get down there?'

'Storm  just  bleeeew  me  away,'  Pennywise  the  Dancing  Clown  said.  'It  
blew  the  whole
circus away. Can you smell the circus, Georgie?'

George   leaned   forward.   Suddenly   he   could   smell   peanuts!   Hot   
roasted   peanuts!   And
vinegar!  The  white  kind  you  put  on  your  french  fries  through  a  hole 
 in  the  cap!  He  could
smell  cotton  candy  and  frying  doughboys  and  the  faint  but  thunderous  
odor  of  wild -animal
shit. He could smell the cheery aroma of midway sawdust. And yet . . .

And  yet  under  it  all  was  the  smell  of  flood  and  decomposing  leaves  
and  dark  stormdrain
shadows. That smell was wet and rotten. The cellar-smell.

But the other smells were stronger.
'You bet I can smell it,' he said.

'Want  your  boat,  Georgie?'  Pennywise  asked.  'I  only  repeat  myself  
because  you  really  do
not  seem  that  eager.'  He  held  it  up,  smiling.  He  was  wearing  a  
baggy  silk  suit with great big
orange  buttons.  A  bright  tie,  electric-blue,  flopped  down  his  front,  
and  on  his  hands  were  big
white gloves, like the kind Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck always wore.

'Yes, sure,' George said, looking into the stormdrain.

'And a balloon? I've got red and green and yellow and blue         '

'Do they float?'


'Float?'  The  clown's  grin  widened.  'Oh  yes,  indeed  they  do.  They  
float!  And  there's  cotton
candy         '

George reached.

The clown seized his arm.

And George saw the clown's face change.

What  he  saw  then  was  terrible  enough  to  make  his  worst  imaginings  
of  the  thing  in  the
cellar look like sweet dreams; what he saw destroyed his sanity in one clawing 
stroke.

'They  float,'  the  thing  in  the  drain  crooned  ni   a  clotted,  
chuckling  voice.  It  held  George's

arm  in  its  thick  and  wormy  grip,  it  pulled  George  toward  that  
terrible  darkness  where  the
water  rushed  and  roared  and  bellowed  as  it  bore  its  cargo  of  storm  
debris  toward  the  sea.
George  craned  his  neck  away  from  that  final  blackness  and  began  to  
scream  into  the  rain,  to
scream  mindlessly  into  the  white  autumn  sky  which  curved  above  Derry  
on  that  day  in  the
fall  of  1957.  His  screams  were  shrill  and  piercing,  and  all  up  and  
down  Witcham  Street
people came to then — windows or boiled out onto their porches.

'They  float,'  it growled, 'they   float,  Georgie,  and  when  you're  down  
here  with  me,  you'll
float, too — '

George's  shoulder  socked  against  the  cement  of  the  curb  and  Dave  
Gardener,  who  had
stayed  home  from  his  job  at  The  Shoeboat  that  day  because  of  the  
flood,  saw  only  a  small
boy  in  a  yellow  rain-slicker,  a  small  boy  who  was  screaming  and  
writhing  in  the  gutter  with
muddy water surfing over his face and making his screams sound bubbly.

'Everything  down  here   floats,'  that  chuckling,  rotten  voice  whispered, 
 and  suddenly  there
was a ripping noise and a flaring sheet of agony, and George Denbrough knew no 
more.

Dave  Gardener  was  the  first  to  get  there,  and  although  he  arrived  
only  forty-five seconds
after  the  first  scream,  George  Denbrough  was  already  dead.  Gardener  
grabbed  him  by  the
back  of  the  slicker,  pulled  him  into  the  street  .  .  .  and  began  
to  scream  himself  as  George's
body  turned  over  in  his  hands.  The  left  side  of  George's  slicker  
was  now  bright red. Blood
flowed  into  the  stormdrain  from  the  tattered  hole  where  the  left  arm 
 had  been.  A  knob  of
bone, horribly bright, peeked through the torn cloth.

The boy's eyes stared up into the white sky, and as Dave staggered away toward 
the others

already running pell-mell down the street, they began to fill up with rain.

4

Somewhere  below,  in  the  stormdrain  that  was  already  filled  nearly  to  
capacity  with  runoff
(there  could  have  been  no  one  down  there,  the  County  Sheriff  would  
later  exclaim  to  a  Derry
News  reporter  with  a  frustrated  fury  so  great  it  was  almost  agony;  
Hercules  himself  would
have  been  swept  away  in  that  driving  current),  George's  newspaper  
boat  shot  onward  through
nighted  chambers  and  long  concrete  hallways  that  roared  and  chimed  
with water. For awhile
it    ran  neck-and-neck  with  a  dead  chicken  that  floated  with  its  
yellowy,  reptilian  toes  pointed
at  the  dripping  ceiling;  then,  at  some  junction  east  of  town,  the  
chicken  was  swept  off  to  the
left while George's boat went straight.

An  hour  later,  while  George's  mother  was  being  sedated  in  the  
Emergency  Room  at  Derry
Home  Hospital  and  while  Stuttering  Bill  sat  stunned  and  white  and  
silent  in  his  bed,  listening
to  his  father  sob  hoarsely  in  the  parlor  where  his  mother  had  been  
playing  Für  Elise  when
George  went  out,  the  boat  shot  out  through  a  concrete  loophole  like  
a  bullet  exiting  the
muzzle  of  a  gun  and  ran  at  speed  down  a  sluiceway  and  into  an  
unnamed  stream.  When  it
joined  the  boiling,  swollen  Penobscot  River  twenty  minutes  later,  the  
first  rifts  of  blue  had
begun to show in the sky overhead. The storm was over.


The  boat  dipped  and  swayed  and  sometimes  took  on  water,  but  it  did  
not  sink;  the  two
brothers  had  waterproofed  it  well.  I  do  not  know  where  it  finally  
fetched  up,  if  ever  it did;
perhaps  it  reached  the  sea  and  sails  there  forever,  like  a  magic  
boat  in  a  fairytale.  All  I  know
is  that  it  was  still  afloat  and  still  running  on  the  breast  of  the 
 flood  when  it  passed  the
incorporated town limits of Derry, Maine, and there it passes out of this tale 
forever.


C H A P T E R  2

After the Festival (1984)

1

The  reason  Adrian  was  wearing  the  hat,  his  sobbing  boyfriend  would  
later  tell  the  police,  was
because  he  had  won  it  at  the  Pitch  Til  U  Win  stall  on  the  Bassey  
Park  fairgrounds  jus t six
days before his death. He was proud of it.

'He  was  wearing  it  because  he  loved  this  shitty  little  town!'  the  
boyfriend,  Don  Hagarty,
screamed at the cops.

'Now,  now  —  there's  no  need  for  that  sort  of  language,'  Officer  
Harold  Gardener  told
Hagarty.  Harold  Gardener  was  one  of  Dave  Gardener's  our  sons.  On  the 
 day  his  father  had
discovered  the  lifeless,  one-armed  body  of  George  Denbrough,  Harold  
Gardener  had  been
five.  On  this  day,  almost  twenty-seven  years  later,  he  was  thirty-two 
 and  balding.  Harold
Gardener  recognized  the  reality  of  Don  Hagarty's  grief  and  pain,  and  
at  the  same  time  found
it  impossible  to  take  seriously.  This  man  —  if  you  want  to  call  
him  a  man  —  was wearing

lipstick  and  satin  pants  so  tight  you  could  almost  read  the  wrinkles 
 ni  his  cock.  Grief  or  no

grief, pain or no pain, he was, after all, just a queer. Like his friend, the 
late Adrian Mellon.

'Let's  go  through  it  again,'  Harold's  partner,  Jeffrey  Reeves,  said.  
'The  two  of  you  came  out
of the Falcon and turned toward the Canal. Then what?'

'How  many  times  do  I  have  to  tell  you  idiots?'  Hagarty  was  still  
screaming.  'They  killed

him!  They  pushed  him  over  the  side!  Just  another  day  in  Macho  City  
for  them!'  Don  Hagarty
began to cry.

'One more time,' Reeves repeated patiently. 'You came out of the Falcon. Then 
what?'

2

In an interrogation room just down the hall, two Derry cops were speaking with 
Steve Dubay,
seventeen;  in  the  Clerk  of  Probate's  office  upstairs,  two  more  were  
questioning  John  'Webby'
Garton,   eighteen;   and   in   the   Chief   of   Police's   office   on   
the   fifth   floor,   Chief   Andrew
Rademacher  and  Assistant  District  Attorney  Tom  Boutillier  were  
questioning  fifteen-year-old
Christopher  Unwin.  Unwin,  who  wore  faded  jeans,  a  grease-smeared  
tee-shirt,  and  blocky
engineer  boots,  was  weeping.  Rademacher  and  Boutillier  had  taken  him  
because  they  had
quite accurately assessed him as the weak link in the chain.

'Let's  go  through  it  again,'  Boutillier  said  in  this  office  just  as  
Jeffrey  Reeves  was  saying
the same thing two floors down.

'We  didn't  mean  to  kill  him,'  Unwin  blubbered.  'It  was  the  hat.  We  
couldn't  believe  he  was

still  wearing  the  hat  after,  you  know,  after  what  Webby  said  the  
first  time.  And  I  guess  we
wanted to scare him.'

'For what he said,' Chief Rademacher interjected.
'Yes.'

'To John Garton, on the afternoon of the 17th.'

'Yes,  to  Webby.'  Unwin  burst  into  fresh  tears.  'But  we  tried  to  
save  him  when  we  saw  he
was in trouble . . . at least me and Stevie Dubay did . . . we didn't mean to k 
ill him!'

'Come on, Chris, don't shit us,' Boutillier said. 'You threw the little queer 
into the Canal.'


'Yes, but — '

'And  the  three  of  you  came  in  to  make  a  clean  breast  of  things.  
Chief  Rademacher  and  I
appreciate that, don't we, Andy?'

'You bet. It takes a man to own up to what he did, Chris.'

'So  don't  fuck  yourself  up  by  lying  now.  You  meant  to  throw  him  
over  the  minute  you  saw
him and his fag buddy coming out of the Falcon, didn't you?'

'No!' Chris Unwin protested vehemently.

Boutillier  took  a  pack  of  Marlboros  from  his  shirt  pocket  and  stuck  
one  in  his  mouth.  He
offered the pack to Unwin. 'Cigarette?'

Unwin  took  one.  Boutillier  had  to  chase  the  tip  with  a  match  in  
order  to  give  him  a  light
because of the way Unwin's mouth was trembling.

'But when you saw he was wearing the hat?' Rademacher asked.

Unwin  dragged  deep,  lowered  his  head  so  that  his  greasy  hair  fell  
in  his  eyes,  and  jetted
smoke from his nose, which was littered with blackheads.

'Yeah,' he said, almost too softly to be heard.

Boutillier  leaned  forward,  brown  eyes  gleaming.  His  face  was  predatory 
 but  his  voice  was
gentle. 'What, Chris?'

'I  said  yes.  I  guess  so.  To  throw  him  in.  But  not  to  kill  him.'  
He  looked  up  at  them,  face
frantic  and  miserable  and  still  unable  to  comprehend  the  stupendous  
changes  which  had  taken
place  in  his  life  since  he  left  the  house  to  take  in  the  last  
night  of  Derry's  Canal  Days  Festival
with  two  of  his  buddies  at  seven-thirty  the  previous  evening.  'Not  
to  kill  him! '  he  repeated.
'And that guy under the bridge . . . I still don't know who he was.'

'What  guy  was  that?'  Rademacher  asked,  but  without  much  interest.  
They  had  heard  this
part  before  as  well,  and  neither  of  them  believed  it  —  sooner or 
later men accused of murder
almost  always  drag  out  that  mysterious  other  guy.   Boutillier  even had 
a name for it: he called
it   the 'One-Armed Man Syndrome,' after that old TV series The Fugitive.

'The guy in the clown suit,' Chris Unwin said, and shivered. 'The guy wit h the 
balloons.'

3

The  Canal  Days  Festival,  which  ran  from  July  15th  to  July  21st,  had 
 been  a  rousing  success,
most  Derry  residents  agreed:  a  great  thing  for  the  city's  morale,  
image  .  .  .  and  pocketbook.
The  week-long  festival  was  pegged  to  mark  the  centenary  of  the  
opening  of  the  Canal  which
ran  through  the  middle  of  downtown.  It  had  been  the  Canal  which  had 
 fully  opened  Derry  to
the  lumber  trade  in  the  years  1884  to  1910;  it  had  been  the  Canal  
which  had  birthed  Derry's
boom years.

The  town  was  spruced  up  from  east  to  west  and  north  to  south.  
Potholes  which  some
residents  swore  hadn't  been  patched  for  ten  years  or  more  were  
neatly  filled  with  hottop  and
rolled  smooth.  The  town  buildings  were  refurbished  on  the  inside,  
repainted  on  the  outside.
The  worst  of  the  graffiti  in  Bassey  Park  —  much  of  it  coolly  
logical  anti-gay  statements  such
as  KILL  ALL  QUEERS  and  AIDS  FROM  GOD  YOU  HELLHOUND  HOMOS!!  —  was 
sanded off the
benches  and  wooden  walls  of  the  little  covered  walkway  over  the  
Canal  known  as  the  Kissing
Bridge.

A  Canal  Days  Museum  was  installed  in  three  empty  store-fronts  
downtown,  and  filled  with
exhibits   by   Michael   Hanlon,   a   local   librarian   and   amateur   
historian.   The   town's   oldest
families  loaned  freely  of  their  almost  priceless  treasures,  and  during 
 the  week  of  the  festival
nearly  forty  thousand  visitors  paid  a  quarter  each  to  look  at  
eating-house  menus  from  the
1890s,  loggers'  bitts,  axes,  and  peaveys  from  the  1880s,  children's  
toys  from  the  1920s,  and


over  two  thousand  photographs  and  nine  reels  of  movie  film  of  life  
as  it  had  been  in  Derry
over the last hundred years.

The  museum  was  sponsored  by  the  Derry  Ladies'  Society,  which  vetoed  
some  of  Hanlon's
proposed  exhibits  (such  as  the  notorious  tramp-chair  from  the  1930s)  
and  photographs  (such
as  those  of  the  Bradley  Gang  after  the  notorious  shoot-out).  But  all 
 agreed  it  was  a  great
success,  and  no  one  really  wanted  to  see  those  gory  old  things  
anyway.  It  was  so  much  better
to accentuate the positive and eliminate the negative, as the old song said.

There  was  a  huge  striped  refreshment  tent  in  Derry  Park,  and  band  
concerts  there  every
night.  In  Bassey  Park  there  was  a  carnival  with  rides  by  Smokey's  
Greater  Shows  and  games
run  by  local  townfolk.  A  special  tram-car  circled  the  historic  
sections  of  the  town  every  hour
on the hour and ended up at this gaudy and amiable money-machine.

It  was  here  that  Adrian  Mellon  won  the  hat  which  would  get  him  
killed,  the  paper  top-hat
with the flower and the band which said I ¤  DERRY!

4

'I'm  tired,'  John  'Webby'  Garton  said.  Like  his  two  friends,  he  was  
dressed  in  unconscious
imitation  of  Bruce  Springsteen,  although  if  asked  he  would  probably  
call  Springsteen  a  wimp
or             a  fagola  and  would  instead  profess  admiration  for  such  
'bitchin'  heavy-metal groups as Def
Leppard,  Twisted  Sister,  or  Judas  Priest.  The  sleeves  of  his  plain  
blue  tee-shirt  were  torn  off,
showing  his  heavily  muscled  arms.  His  thick  brown  hair  fell  over  one 
 eye  —  this touch was
more  John  Cougar  Mellencamp  than  Springsteen.  There  were  blue  tattoos  
on  his  arms  —
arcane  symbols  which  looked  as  if  they  had  been  drawn  by  a  child.  
'I  don't  want  to  talk  no
more.'

'Just  tell  us  about  Tuesday  afternoon  at  the  fair,'  Paul  Hughes  
said.  Hughes  was  tired  and
shocked and  dismayed  by  this  whole  sordid  business.  He  thought  again  
and  again  that  it  was
as      if  Derry  Canal  Days  ended  with  one  final  event  which  everyone 
 had  somehow  known
about  but  which  no  one  had  quite  dared  to  put  down  on  the  Daily  
Program  of  Events.  If  they
had, it would have looked like this:

Saturday,  9:00   P.M.:  Final  band  concert  featuring  the  Derry  High  
School  Band  and  the
Barber Shop Mello -Men.

Saturday, 10:00 P.M.: Giant fireworks show.

Saturday, 10:35 P.M.: Ritual sacrifice of Adrian Mellon officially ends Canal 
Days.

'Fuck the fair,' Webby replied.

'Just what you said to Mellon and what he said to you.'
'Oh Christ.' Webby rolled his eyes.

'Come on, Webby,' Hughes's partner said.
Webby Garton rolled his eyes and began again.

5

Garton  saw  the  two  of  them,  Mellon  and  Hagarty,  mincing  along  with  
their  arms  about  each
other's  waists  and  giggling  like  a  couple  of  girls.  At  first  he  
actually  thought  they  were  a
couple  of  girls.  Then  he  recognized  Mellon,  who  had  been  pointed  out 
 to  him  before.  As  he
looked, he saw Mellon turn to Hagarty . . . and they kissed briefly.

'Oh, man, I'm gonna barf!' Webby cried, disgusted.


Chris  Unwin  and  Steve  Dubay  were  with  him.  When  Webby  pointed  out  
Mellon,  Steve
Dubay said he thought  the other fag was named Don somebody,  and that he'd 
picked up a kid
from Derry High hitching and then tried to put a few moves on him.

Mellon  and  Hagarty  began  to  move  toward  the  three  boys  again,  
walking  away  from  the
Pitch  Til  U  Win  and  toward  the  carny's  exit.  Webby  Garton  would  
later  tell  Officers  Hughes
and  Conley  that  his  'civic  pride'  had  been  wounded  by  seeing  a  
fucking  faggot  wearing  a  hat
which said  I  ¤  DERRY.  It was a silly thing, that hat  —  a  paper  
imitation  of  a  top  hat  with  a
great  big  flower  sticking  up  from  the  top  and  nodding  about  in  
every  direction.  The  silliness
of the hat apparently wounded Webby's civic pride even more.

As  Mellon  and  Hagarty  passed,  each  with  his  arm  linked  about  the  
other's  waist,  Webby
Garton yelled out: 'I ought to make you eat that hat, you fucking ass-bandit!'

Mellon   turned   toward   Garton,   fluttered   his   eyes   flirtatiously,   
and   said:   'If   you   want
something to eat, hon, I can find something much tastier than my hat.'

At  this  point  Webby  Garton  decided  he  was  going  to  rearrange  the  
faggot's  face.  In  the

geography   of   Mellon's   face,   mountains   would   rise   and   continents 
  would   drift.   Nobody

suggested he sucked the root. Nobody.

He   started   toward   Mellon.   Mellon's   friend   Hagarty,   alarmed,   
attempted   to   pull   Mellon
away,  but  Mellon  stood  his  ground,  smiling.  Garton  would  later  tell  
Officers  Hughes  and
Conley  that  he  was  pretty  sure  Mellon  was  high  on  something.  So  he  
was,  Hagarty  would
agree  when  this  idea  was  passed  on  to  him  by  Officers  Gardener  and  
Reeves.  He was high on
two  fried  doughboys  smeared  with  honey,  on  the  carnival,  on  the  
whole  day.  He  had  been
consequently unable to recognize the real menace which Webby Garton 
represented.

'But  that  was  Adrian,'  Don  said,  using  a  tissue  to  wipe  his  eyes  
and   smearing the spangled
eyeshadow  he  was  wearing.  'He  didn't  have  much  in  the  way  of  
protective  coloration.  He  was
one         of those fools who think things really are going to turn out all 
right.'

He  might  have  been  badly  hurt  there  and  then  if  Garton  hadn't  felt  
something  tap  his
elbow.  It  was  a  nightstick.  He  turned  his  head  to  see  Officer  Frank 
 Machen,  another  member
of Derry's Finest.

'Never  mind,  little  buddy,'  Machen  told  Garton.  'Mind  your  business  
and  leave  those  little

gay boyos alone. Have some fun.'

'Did  you  hear  what  he  called  me?'  Garton  asked  body.  He  was  now  
joined  by  Unwin  and
Dubay  —  the  two  of  them,  smelling  trouble,  tried  to  urge  Garton  on  
up  the  midway,  but
Garton  shrugged  them  away,  would  have  turned  on  them  with  his  fists  
if  they  had persisted.
His  masculinity  had  borne  an  insult  which  he  felt  must  be  avenged.  
Nobody  suggested  he
sucked the root. Nobody.

'I  don't  believe  he  called  you  anything,'  Machen  replied.  'And  you  
spoke  to  him  first,  I
believe. Now move on, sonny. I don't want to have to tell you again.'

'He called me a queer!'

'Are  you  worried  you  might  be,  then?'  Machen  asked,  seeming  to  be  
honestly  interested,
and Garton flushed a deep ugly red.

During   this   exchange,   Hagarty   was   trying   with   increasing   
desperation   to   pull   Adrian
Mellon away from the scene. Now, at last, Mellon was going.

'Ta-ta, love!' Adrian called cheekily over his shoulder.
'Shut up, candy-ass,' Machen said. 'Get out of here.'
Garton made a lunge at Mellon, and Machen grabbed him.

'I  can  run  you  in,  my  friend,'  Machen  said,  'and  the  way  you're  
acting,  it  might  not  be  such
a bad idea.'

'Next  time  I  see  you  I'm  gonna  hurt  you!'  Garton  bellowed  after  the 
 departing  pair,  and
heads turned to stare at him.  'And  if  you're  wearing that hat, I'm gonna 
kill you! This town
don't need no faggots like you!'


Without  turning,  Mellon  waggled  the  fingers  of  his  left  hand  —  the  
nails  were  painted
cerise — and put an extra little wiggle in his walk. Garton lunged again.

'One  more  word or one more move and in you go,' Machen said mildly. 'Trust 
me, my boy,
for I mean exactly what I say.'

'Come on, Webby,' Chris Unwin said uneasily. 'Mellow out.'

'You  like  guys  like  that?'  Webby  asked  Machen,  ignoring  Chris  and  
Steve  completely.
'Huh?'

'About  the  bum-punchers  I'm  neutral,'  Machen  said.  'What  I'm  really  
in  favor  of  is  peace
and  quiet,  and  you  are  upsetting  what  I  like,  pizza  face.  Now  do  
you  want  to  go  a  round  with
me or what?'

'Come on, Webby,' Steve Dubay said quietly. 'Let's go get some hot dogs.'

Webby  went,  straightening  his  shirt  with  exaggerated  moves  and  
brushing  the  hair  out  of
his  eyes.  Machen,  who  also  gave  a  statement  on  the  morning  following 
 Adrian  Mellon's
death, said: 'The last thing I heard him say as him  and his buddies walked off 
was, "Next time
I see him he's going to be in serious hurt."'

6

'Please, I got to talk to my mother,' Steve Dubay said for the third time. 
'I've got to get her to
mellow  out  my  stepfather,  or  there  is  going  to  be  one  hell  of  a  
punching-match  when  I  get
home.'

'In  a  little  while,'  Officer  Charles  Avarino  told  him.  Both  Avarino  
and  his  partner,  Barney
Morrison,  knew  that  Steve  Dubay  would  not  be  going  home  tonight  and  
maybe  not  for  many

nights  to  come.  The  boy  did  not  seem  ot  realize  just  how  heavy  
this  particular  bust  was,  and

Avarino  would  not  be  surprised  when  he  learned,  later  on,  that  Dubay 
 had  left  school  at  age
sixteen.  At  that  time  he  had  still  been  in  Water  Street  Junior  
High.  His  IQ  was  68,  according
to the Wechsler he had taken during one of his three trips through the seventh 
grade.

'Tell us what happened when you saw Mellon coming out of the Falcon,' Morrison 
invited.
'No, man, I better not.'

'Well, why not?' Avarino asked.

'I already talked too much, maybe.'

'You came in to talk,' Avarino said. 'Isn't that right?'
'Well . . . yeah . . . but . . . '

'Listen,'  Morrison  said  warmly,  sitting  down  next  to  Dubay  and  
shooting  him  a  cigarette.
'You think me and Chick here like fags?'

'I don't know — '

'Do we look like we like fags?'
'No, but . . . '

'We're  your  friends,  Steve-o,'  Morrison  said  solemnly.  'And  believe  
me,  you  and  Chris  and
Webby  need  all  the  friends  you  can  get  just  about  now.  Because  
tomorrow  every  bleeding
heart in this town is going to be screaming for you guys's blood.'

Steve  Dubay  looked  dimly  alarmed.  Avarino,  who  could  almost  read  this 
 hairbag's  pussy
little  mind,  suspected  he  was  thinking  about  his  stepfather  again.  
And  although  Avarino  had
no  liking  for  Derry's  small  gay  community  —  like  every  other  cop  on 
 the  force,  he  would
enjoy  seeing  the  Falcon  shut  up  forever  —  he  would  have  been  
delighted  to  drive  Dubay
home  himself.  He  would,  in  fact,  have  been  delighted  to  hold  Dubay's 
 arms  while  Dubay's
stepfather  beat  the  creep  to  oatmeal.  Avarino  did  not  like  gays,  but 
 this  did  not  mean  he
believed  they  should  be  tortured  and  murdered.  Mellon  had  been  
savaged.  When  they  brought


him  up  from  under  the  Canal  bridge,  his  eyes  had  been  open,  bulging 
 with  terror.  And this
guy here had absolutely no idea of what he had helped do.

'We  didn't  mean  to  hurt  'im,'  Steve  repeated.  This  was  his  fall-back 
 position  when  he
became even slightly confused.

'That's  why  you  want  to  get  out  front  with  us,'  Avarino  said  
earnestly. 'Get the true facts of
the  matter  out  in  front,  and  this  maybe  won't  amount  to  a  pisshole  
in  the  snow.  Isn't  that  right,
Barney?'

'As rain,' Morrison agreed.

'One more time, what do you say?' Avarino coaxed.
'Well . . . ' Steve said, and then, slowly, began to talk.

7

When  the  Falcon  was  opened  in  1973,  Elmer  Curtie  thought  his  
clientele  would  consist
mostly   of   bus-riders   —   the   terminal   next   door   serviced   three  
 different   lines:   Trailways,
Greyhound,   and   Aroostook   County.   What   he   failed   to   realize   
was   how   many   of   the
passengers  who  ride  buses  are  women  or  families  with  small  children  
in  tow.  Many  of  the
others  kept  their  bottles  in  brown  bags  and  never  got  off  the  bus  
at  all.  Those  who  did  were
usually  soldiers  or  sailors  who  wanted  no  more than a quick beer or two  
— you couldn't very
well go on a bender during a ten-minute rest-stop.

Curtie had begun to realize some of these home truths by 1977, but by then it 
was too late:
he  was  up  to  his  tits  in  bills  and  there  was  no  way  that  he  
could see out of the red ink. The
idea  of  burning  the  place  down  for  the  insurance  occurred  to  him,  
but  unless  he  hired  a
professional  to  torch  it,  he  supposed  he  would  be  caught  .  .  .  and 
 he  had  no  idea  where
professional arsonists hung out, anyway.

He decided in February of that year that he would give it until July 4th; if 
things didn't look
as  if  they  were  turning  around  by  then,  he  would  simply  walk  next  
door,  get  on  a  'hound,  and
see how things looked down in Florida.

But  in  the  next  five  months, an amazing quiet sort of prosperity came to 
the bar, which was
painted  black  and  gold  inside  and  decorated  with  stuffed  birds  (Elmer 
 Curtie's  brother  had
been  an  amateur  taxidermist  who  specialized  in  birds,  and  Elmer  had  
inherited  the  stuff  when
he  died).  Suddenly,  instead  of  drawing  sixty  beers  and  pouring  maybe  
twenty  drinks  a  night,
Elmer  was  drawing  eighty  beers  and  pouring  a  hundred  drinks  .  .  .  
a  hundred  and  twenty  .  .  .
sometimes a hundred and sixty.

His    clientele    was    young,    polite,    almost    exclusively   male.   
Many   of   them   dressed
outrageously,  but  those  were  years  when  outrageous  dress  was  still  
almost  the  norm,  and
Elmer  Curtie  did  not  realize  that  his  patrons  were  just  about  almost 
 exclusively  gay  until
1981  or  so.  If  Derry  residents  had  heard him say this, they would have 
laughed and said that
Elmer  Curtie  must  think  they  had  all  been  born  yesterday  —  but  his  
claim  was  perfectly  true.
Like  the  man  with  the  cheating  wife,  he  was  practically  the  last  to 
 know  .  .  .  and  by  the  time
he  did,  he  didn't  care.  The  bar  was  making  money,  and  while  there  
were  four  other  bars  in
Derry  which  turned  a  profit,  the  Falcon  was  the  only  one  where  
rambunctious  patrons  did  not
regularly  demolish  the  whole  place.  There  were  no  women  to  fight  
over,  for  one  thing,  and
these  men,  fags  or  not,  seemed  to  have  learned  a  secret  of  getting  
along  with  each  other
which their heterosexual counterparts did not know.

Once  he  became  aware  of  the  sexual  preference  of  his  regulars,  he  
seemed  to  hear  lurid

stories  about  the  Falcon everywhere  —  these  stories  had  been  
circulating  for  years,  but  until
'81  Curtie  simply  hadn't  heard  them.  The  most  enthusiastic  tellers  of 
 these  tales,  he  came  to
realize,  were  men  who  wouldn't  be  dragged  into  the  Falcon  with  a  
chainfall  for  fear  all  the


muscles  would  go  out  of  their  wrists,  or  something.  Yet  they  seemed  
privy  to  all  sorts  of
information.

According  to  the  stories,  you  could  go  in  there  any  night  and  see  
men  close-dancing,
rubbing  their  cocks  together  right  out  on  the  dancefloor;  men  
french-kissing  at  the  bar;  men
getting blow jobs in the bathrooms. There was supposedly a room out back where 
you went if
you  wanted  to  spend  a  little  time  on  the  Tower  of  Power  —  there  
was  a  big  old  fellow  in  a
Nazi  uniform  back  there  who  kept  his  arm  greased  most  of  the  way  
to  the  shoulder  and  who
would be happy to take care of you.

In  fact,  none  of  these  things  was  true.  When  folks  with  a  thirst  
did  come  in  from the bus

station  for  a  beer  or  a  highball,  they  sensed  nothing  out  of  the  
ordinary  in  the  Falcon at all  —
there  were  a  lot  of  guys,  sure,  but  that  was  no  different  from  
thousands  of  workingmen's  bars
all  across  the  country.  The  clientele  was  gay,  but  gay  was  not  a  
synonym  for  stupid.  If  they
wanted  a  little  outrageousness,  they  went  to  Portland. If  they  wanted  
a  lot  of  outrageousness

—  Ramrod-style  outrageousness  or  Peck's  Big  Boy-style  outrageousness   — 
 they  went  down
to  New  York  or  Boston.  Derry  was  small,  Derry  was  provincial,  and  
Derry's  small  gay
community understood the shadow under which it existed quite well.

Don  Hagarty  had  been  coming  into  the  Falcon  for  two  or  three  years  
on  the  night  in  March
of  1984  when  he  first  showed  up  with  Adrian  Mellon.  Before  then,  
Hagarty  had  been  the  sort
who  plays  the  field,  rarely  showing  up  with  the  same  escort  half  a  
dozen  times.  But  by  late
April  it  had  become  obvious  even  to  Elmer  Curtie,  who  cared  very  
little  about  such  things,
that Hagarty and Mellon had a steady thing going.

Hagarty   was   a   draftsman   with   an   engineering   firm   in   Bangor.   
Adrian   Melon   was   a

freelance   writer   who   published   anywhere   and   everywhere   he   could 
 —   airline  magazines,
confession   magazines,   regional   magazines,   Sunday   supplements,   
sex-letter   magazines.   He
had    been  working  on  a  novel,  but  maybe  that  wasn't  serious   —  he  
had  been  working on it
since his third year of college, and that had been twelve years ago.

He had come to Derry to write a piece about the Canal  — he was on assignment 
from  New
England  Byways,  a  glossy  bi-monthly  that  was  published  in  Concord.  
Adrian  Mellon  had
taken  the  assignment  because  he  could  squeeze  Byways  for  three  weeks' 
 worth  of  expense
money, including a nice room at the Derry Town House, and gather all the 
material he needed
for  the  piece  in  maybe  five  days.  During  the  other  two  weeks  he  
could  gather enough material
for maybe four other regional pieces.

But  during  that  three-week  period  he  met  Don  Hagarty,  and  instead  of 
 going  back  to
Portland  when  his  three  weeks  on  the  cuff  were  over,  he  found  
himself  a  small  apartment  on
Kossuth Lane. He lived there for only six weeks. Then he moved in with Don 
Hagarty.

8

That  summer,  Hagarty  told  Harold  Gardener  and  Jeff  Reeves,  was  the  
happiest  summer  of  his
life — he should have been on the lookout, he said; he should have known that 
God only puts
a rug under guys like him in order to jerk it out from under their feet.

The  only  shadow,  he  said,  was  Adrian's  extravagantly  partisan  reaction 
 to  Derry.  He  had  a
tee-shirt which said  MAINE  AIN'T BAD BUT DERRY'S GREAT!  He had a Derry 
Tigers high-school
jacket.   And   of   course   there   was   the   hat.   He   claimed   to   
find   the   atmosphere   vital   and
creatively   invigorating.   Perhaps   there   was   something   to   this:   
he   had   taken   his   languishing
novel out of the trunk for the first time in nearly a year.

'Was  he  really  working  on  it,  then?'  Gardener  asked  Hagarty,  not  
really  caring  but  wanting
to keep Hagarty primed.


'Yes  —  he  was  busting  pages.  He  said  it  might  be  a  terrible  novel, 
 but  it  was  no  longer
going  to  be  a  terrible  unfinished  novel.  He  expected  to  finish  it  
by  his  birthday,  in  October.
Of  course,  he  didn't  know  what  Derry  was  really  like.  He  thought  he 
 did,  but  he  hadn't  been
here  long  enough  to  get  a  whiff  of  the  real  Derry.  I  kept  trying  
to  tell  him,  but  he  wouldn't
listen.'

'And what's Derry really like, Don?' Reeves asked.

'It's a lot like a dead strumpet with maggots squirming out of her cooze,' Don 
Hagarty said.
The two cops stared in silent amazement.

'It's a bad place,' Hagarty said. 'It's a sewer. You mean you two guys don't  
know  that? You

two guys have lived here all of your lives and you don't know that?'
Neither of them answered. After a little while, Hagarty went on.

9

Until  Adrian  Mellon  entered  his  life,  Don  had  been  planning  to  leave 
 Derry.  He  had  been
there  for  three  years,  mostly  because  he  had  agreed  to  a  long-term 
lease on an apartment with
the  world's  most  fantastic  river-view, but now the lease was almost up and 
Don was glad. No
more long commute back and forth to Bangor. No more weird vibes  — in Derry, he 
once told
Adrian,  it  always  felt  like  thirteen  o'clock.  Adrian  might  think  
Derry  was  a  great  place,  but  it
scared  Don.  It  was  not  just  the  town's  tightly  homophobic  attitude,  
an  attitude  as  clearly
expressed  by  the  town's  preachers  as  by  the  graffiti  in  Bassey  Park, 
 but  that was one thing he
had  been able to put his finger on. Adrian had laughed.

'Don,  every  town  in  America  has  a  contingent  that  hates  the  
gayfolk,'  he  said.  'Don't  tell  me
you don't know that. This is, after all, the era of Ronnie Moron and Phyllis 
Hous efly.'

'Come  down  to  Bassey  Park  with  me,"  Don  had  replied,  after  seeing  
that  Adrian  really

meant  what  he  was  saying  —  and  what  he  was  really  saying  was  that  
Derry  was  no  worse
than any other fair-sized town in the hinterlands. 'I want to show you 
something, my love.'

They  drove  to  Bassey  Park   —  this  had  been  in  mid-June, about a month 
before Adrian's
murder,  Hagarty  told  the  cops.  He  took  Adrian  into  the  dark,  vaguely 
 unpleasant-smelling
shadows  of  the  Kissing  Bridge.  He  pointed  out  one  of  the  graffiti.  
Adrian  had  to  strike  a
match and hold it below the writing in order to read it.

SHOW ME YOUR COCK QUEER AND I'LL CUT IT OFF YOU.

'I  know  how  people  feel  about  gays,'  Don  said  quietly.  'I  got  
beaten  up  at  a truck-stop  in
Dayton  when  I  was  a  teenager;  some  fellows  in  Portland  set  my  shoes 
 on  fire  outside  of  a
sandwich  shop  while  this  fat-assed old cop sat inside his cruiser and 
laughed. I've seen a lot . .

. but I've never seen anything quite like this. Look over here. Check it out.'
Another match revealed STICK NAILS IN EYES OF ALL FAGOTS (FOR GOD)!

'Whoever  writes  these  little  homilies  has  got  a  case  of  the  
deep-down crazies. I'd feel better

if  I  thought  it  was  just  one  person,  one  isolated  sickie,  but  .  .  
.  '  Don  swept  his  arm  vaguely
down the length of the Kissing Bridge. 'There's a lot of this stuff . . . and I 
just don't think one
person  did  it  all.  That's  why  I  want  to  leave  Derry,  Ade.  Too  many 
 places  and  too  many
people seem to have the deep-down crazies.'

'Well,  wait  until  I   finish  my  novel,  okay?  Please?  October,  I  
promise,  no  later.  The  air's
better here.'

'He didn't know it was the water he was going to have to watch out for,' Don 
Hagarty said

bitterly.

10


Tom   Boutillier   and   Chief   Rademacher   leaned   forward,   neither   of  
 them   speaking.   Chris
Unwin  sat  with  his  head  down,  talking  monotonously  to  the  floor.  
This  was  the  part  they
wanted  to  hear;  this  was  the  part  that  was  going  to  send  at  least  
two  of  these  assholes  to
Thomaston.

'The  fair  wasn't  no  good,'  Unwin  said.  'They  was  already  takin  down  
all  the  bitchin  rides,
you  know,  like  the  Devil  Dish  and  the  Parachute  Drop.  They  already  
had  a  sign  on  the
Bumper Cars that said "closed." Wasn't nothing open but baby rides. So we went 
down by the
games  and  Webby  saw  the  Pitch  Til  U  Win  and  he  paid  fifty  cents  
and  he  seen  that  hat  the
queer was wearing and he pitched at that, but he kept missing it, and every 
time he missed he
got  more  in  a  bad  mood,  you  know?  And  Steve   —  he's  the  guy  who  
usually  goes  around
saying   mellow   out,  like  mellow  out  this  and  mellow  out  that  and  
why  don't  you  fuckin
mellow  out,  you  know?  Only  he  was  in  a  real  piss-up-a-rope mood 
because he took this pill,
you know? I don't know what kind of a pill. A red pill. Maybe it was even 
legal. But he keeps
after  Webby  until  I  thought  Webby  was  gonna  hit  him,  you  know.  He  
goes.  You  can't  even
win  that  queer's  hat.  You  must  be  really  wasted  if  you  can't  even  
win  that  queer's  hat.  So
finally  the  lady  gives  im  a  prize  even  though  the  ring  wasn't  over  
it,  cause  I  think she wanted
to  get  rid  of  us.  I  don't  know.  Maybe  she  didn't.  But  I  think  she 
 did.  It  was  this  noise-maker
thing,  you  know?  You  blow  it  and  it  puffs  up  and  unrolls  and  makes 
 a  noise  like  a  fart,  you
know?  I  used  to  have  one  of  those.  I  got  it  for  Halloween  or  New  
Year's  or  some  fuckin
holiday,  I  thought  it  was  pretty  good,  only  I  lost  it.  Or  maybe  
somebody  hawked  it  out  of  my
pocket  in  the  fuckin  playyard  at  school,  you  know?  So  then  the  
fair's  closin  and  we're  walkin
out  and  Steve's  still  on  Webby  about  not  bein  able  to  win  that  
queer's  hat,  you  know,  and
Webby ain't sayin much, and I know that's a bad sign but I was pretty 'faced, 
you know? So I
knew  I  ought  to  like  change  the  subject  only  I  couldn't  think  of  
no  subject,  you  know?  So
when  we  get  into  the parkin lot Steve says, Where you want to go? Home? And 
Webby goes,
Let's cruise by the Falcon first and see if that queer's around.'

Boutillier  and  Rademacher  exchanged  a  glance.  Boutillier  raised  a  
single  finger  and  tapped
it  against  his  cheek:  although  this  doofus  in  the  engineer  boots  
didn't  know  it,  he  was  now
talking about first-degree murder.

'So I goes no, I gotta get home, and Webby goes, You scared to go by that 
queer-bar? And
I  go,  Fuck  no!  And  Steve's  still  high  or  something,  and  he  says,  
Let's  go  grease  some
queermeat! Let's go grease some queermeat! Let's go grease . . . '

11

The  timing  was  just  right  enough  so  that  things  worked  out  wrong  
for  everyone.  Adrian
Mellon  and  Don  Hagarty  came  out  of  the  Falcon  after  two  beers,  
walked  up   past  the  bus
station,  and  then  linked  hands.  Neither  of  them  thought  about  it;  it 
 was  just  something  they
did. It was ten-twenty. They reached the corner and turned left.

The  Kissing  Bridge  was  almost  half  a  mile  upriver  from  here;  they  
meant  to  cross  Main
Street  Bridge,  which  was  much  less  picturesque.  The  Kenduskeag  was  
summer-low, no more
than four feet of water sliding listlessly around the concrete pilings.

When  the  Duster  drew  abreast  of  them  (Steve  Dubay  had  spotted  the  
two  of  them  coming
out of the Falcon and gleefully pointed them out), they were on the edge of the 
span.

'Cut  in!  Cut  in!'  Webby  Garton  screamed.  The  two  men  had  just  
passed  under  a  streetlight
and  he  had  spotted  the  fact  that  they  were  holding  hands.  This  
infuriated  him  .  .  .  but  not  as
much  as  the  hat  infuriated  him.  The  big  paper  flower  was  nodding  
crazily  this  way  and  that.
'Cut in, goddammit!'


And Steve did.

Chris  Unwin  would  deny  active  participation  in  what  followed,  but  Don 
 Hagarty  told  a
different  story.  He  said  that  Garton  was  out  of  the  car  almost  
before  it  stopped,  and  that  the
other  two  quickly  followed.  There  was  talk.  Not  good  talk.  There  was 
 no  attempt  at  flippancy
or false coquetry on Adrian's part this night; he recognized that they were in 
a lot of trouble.

'Give me that hat,' Garton said. 'Give it to me, queer.'

'If  I  do,  will  you  leave  us  alone?'  Adrian  was  wheezing  with  
fright,  almost  crying,  looking
from Unwin to Dubay to Garton with terrified eyes.

'Just give me the fucker!'

Adrian  handed  it  over.  Garton  produced  a  switchknife  from  the  left  
front  pocket  of  his
jeans  and  cut  it  into  two  pieces.  He  rubbed  the  pieces  against  the  
seat  of  his  jeans.  Then  he
dropped them to his feet and stomped them.

Don  Hagarty  backed  away  a  little  while  their  attention  was  divided  
between  Adrian  and  the
hat — he was looking, he said, for a cop.

'Now will you let us al  —  '  Adrian  Mellon  began,  and  that  was  when  
Garton  punched  him
in  the  face,  driving  him  back  against  the  waist-high  pedestrian  
railing  of  the  bridge.  Adrian
screamed, clapping his hands to his mouth. Blood poured through his fingers.

'Ade!'  Hagarty  cried,  and  ran  forward  again.  Dubay  tripped  him.  
Garton  booted  him  in  the
stomach,  knocking  him  off  the  sidewalk  and  into  the  roadway.  A  car  
passed.  Hagarty  rose  to
his  knees  and  screamed  at  it.  It  didn't  slow.  The  driver,  he  told  
Gardener  and  Reeves,  never
even looked around.

'Shut up, queer!' Dubay said, and kicked him in the side of the face. Hagarty 
fell on his side

in the gutter, semiconscious.

A few moments later he heard a voice   — Chris Unwin's  —  telling him to get 
away before
he got what his friend was getting. In his own statement Unwin verified giving 
this warning.

Hagarty  could  hear  thudding  blows  and  the  sound  of his  lover  
screaming.  Adrian  sounded

like  a  rabbit  in  a  snare,  he  told  the  police.  Hagarty  crawled  back  
toward  the  intersection  and
the bright lights of the bus station, and when he was a distance away he turned 
back to look.

Adrian  Mellon,  who  stood  about  five-five  and  might  have  weighed  a  
hundred  and  thirty-

five  pounds  soaking  wet,  was  being  pushed  from  Garton  to  Dubay  to  
Unwin  in  a  kind  of
triple  play.  His  body  jittered  and  flopped  like  the  body  of  a  rag  
doll.  They  were  punching
him, pummelling him,  ripping  at  his  clothes.  As  he  watched,  he  said,  
Garton  punched  Adrian
in  the  crotch.  Adrian's  hair  hung  in  his  face.  Blood  poured  out  of  
his  mouth  and  soaked  his
shirt.  Webby  Garton  wore  two  heavy  rings  on  his  right  hand:  one  was 
 a  Derry  High  School
ring,  the  other  one  he  had  made  in  shop  class   —  an  intertwined  
brass  DB  stood  out  three
inches  from  this  latter.  The  letters  stood  for  the  Dead  Bugs,  a  
metal  band  he  particularly
admired.  The  rings  had  torn  Adrian's  upper  lip  open  and  shattered  
three  of  his  upper teeth at
the gum line.

'Help!' Hagarty shrieked. 'Help! Help! They're killing him! Help!'

The  buildings  of  Main  Street  loomed  dark  and  secret.  No  one  came  to 
 help  —  not  even
from  the  one  white  island  of  light  which  marked  the  bus  station,  
and  Hagarty did not see how
that  could  be:  there  were  people  in  there.  He  had  seen  them  when  
he  and  Ade  walked  past.
Would none of them come to help? None at all?

'HELP! HELP! THEY'RE KILLING HIM, HELP, PLEASE, FOR GOD'S SAKE!'

'Help,'  a  very  small  voice  whispered  from  Don  Hagarty's  left  .  .  .  
and  then  there  was  a
giggle.

'Bum's  rush!'  Garton  was  yelling  now  .  .  .  yelling  and  laughing.  
All  three  of  them,  Hagarty
told  Gardener  and  Reeves,  had  been  laughing  while  they  beat  Adrian  
up.  'Bum's  rush!  Over
the side!'

'Bum's rush! Bum's rush! Bum's rush!' Dubay chanted, laughing.


'Help,'   the   small   voice   said   again,   and   although   the   voice   
was   grave,   that   little   giggle
followed again — it was like the voice of a child who cannot help itself.

Hagarty  looked  down  and  saw  the  clown  —  and  it  was  at  this  point  
that  Gardener  and
Reeves  began  to  discount  everything  that  Hagarty  said,  because  the  
rest  was  the  raving  of  a
lunatic.   Later,   however,   Harold   Gardener   found   himself   wondering. 
  Later,   when   he   found
that  the  Unwin  boy  had  also  seen  a  clown  —  or  said  he  had  —  he  
began  to  have  second
thoughts. His partner either never had them or would never admit to them.

The  clown,  Hagarty  said,  looked  like  a  cross  between  Ronald  McDonald  
and  that  old  TV
clown, Bozo  —  or so he thought at first. It was the wild tufts of orange hair 
that brought such
comparisons  to  mind.  But  later  consideration  had  caused  him  to  think  
the  clown  really  looked
like  neither.  The  smile  painted  over  the  white  pancake  was  red,  not  
orange,  and the eyes were
a weird shiny silver. Contact lenses, perhaps . . . but a part of him thought 
then and continued
to  think  that  maybe  that  silver  had  been  the  real  color  of  those  
eyes.  He  wore  a  baggy  suit
with big orange-pompom buttons; on his hands were cartoon gloves.

'If you need help, Don,' the clown said, 'help yourself to a balloon.'
And it offered the bunch it held in one hand.

'They float,' the clown said. 'Down here we all float; pretty soon your friend 
will float too.'

12

'This  clown called  you  by  name,'  Jeff  Reeves  said  in  a  totally  
expressionless  voice.  He  looked
over Hagarty's bent head at Harold Gardener, and one eye drew down in a wink.

'Yes,' Hagarty said, not looking up. 'I know how it sounds.'

13

'So  then  you  threw  him  over,'  Boutillier  said.  'Bum's  rush."  'Not  
me!'  Unwin  said,  looking  up.
He  flicked  the  hair  out  of  his  eyes  with  one  hand  and  stared  at  
them  urgently.  'When  I  saw
they  really  meant  to  do  it,  I  tried  to  pull  Steve  away,  because  I  
knew  the  guy  might  get
banged up . . . . It was like ten feet to the water         '

It was twenty-three. One of Chief Rademacher's patrolmen had already measured.

'But it was like he was crazy. The two of them kept yelling "Bum's rush! Bum's 
rush!" and
they  picked  him  up.  Webby  had  him  under  the  arms  and  Steve  had  him 
 by  the  seat  of  the
pants, and . . . and       '

14

When  Hagarty  saw  what  they  were  doing,  he  rushed  back  toward  them,  
screaming  'No! No!
No!' at the top of his voice.

Chris  Unwin  pushed  him  backward  and  Hagarty  landed  in  a  
teeth-rattling  heap  on  the

sidewalk. 'Do you want to go over, too?' he whispered. 'You run, baby!'

They  threw  Adrian  Mellon  over  the  bridge  and  into  the  water  then.  
Hagarty  heard  the
splash.

'Let's get out of here,' Steve Dubay said. He and Webby were backing toward the 
car.

Chris  Unwin  went  to  the  railing  and  looked  over.  He  saw  Hagarty  
first,  sliding  and  clawing
his  way  down  the  weedy,  trash-littered  embankment  to  the  water.  Then  
he  saw  the  clown.
The  clown  was  dragging  Adrian  out  on  the  far  side  with  one  arm;  
its  balloons  were  in  its


other  hand.  Adrian  was  dripping  wet,  choking,  moaning.  The  clown  
twisted  its  head  and
grinned  up  at  Chris.  Chris  said  he  saw  its  shining  silver  eyes  and  
its  bared  teeth  —  great  big
teeth, he said.

'Like the lion in the circus, man,' he said. 'I mean, they were that big.'

Then, he said, he saw the clown shove one of Adrian Mellon's arms back so it 
lay over his
head.

Then  what,  Chris?'  Boutillier  said.  He  was  bored  with  this  part.  
Fairy  tales  had  bored  him
since the age of eight on.

'I dunno,' Chris said. 'That was when Steve grabbed me and hauled me into the 
car. But . . .

I think it bit into his armpit.' He looked up at them again, uncertain now. 'I 
think that's what it
did. Bit into his armpit.

'Like it wanted to eat him, man. Like it wanted to eat his heart.'

15

No,  Hagarty  said  when  he  was  presented  with  Chris  Unwin's  story  in  
the  form  of  questions.
The clown did not drag Ade up on the far bank, at least not that he saw  — and 
he would grant
that  he  had  been  something  less  than  a  disinterested  observer  by  
that  point;  by  that  point  he
had been out of his fucking mind.

The  clown,  he  said,  was  standing  near  the  far  bank  with  Adrian's  
dripping  body  clutched  in

its  arms.  Ade's  right  arm  was  stuck  stiffly  out  behind  the  clown's  
head,  and  the  clown's  face
was  indeed  in  Ade's  right  armpit,  but  it  was  not  biting:  it  was  
smiling.  Hagarty  could  see  it
looking out from beneath Ade's arm and smiling.

The clown's arms tightened, and Hagarty heard ribs splinter.
Ade shrieked.

'Float  with  us,  Don,'  the  clown  said  out  of  its  grinning  red  mouth, 
 and  then  pointed  with
one of its white-gloved hands under the bridge.

Balloons  floated  against  the  underside  of  the  bridge  —  not  a  dozen  
or  a  dozen  dozens  but
thousands,  red  and  blue  and  green  and  yellow,  and  printed  on  the  
side  of  each  was  I  ¤
DERRY!

16

'Well    now,    that    surely    does    sound    like    a    lot    of    
balloons,'    Reeves    said,    and
tipped Harold Gardener another wink.

'I know how it sounds,' Hagarty reiterated in the same dreary voice.
'You saw those balloons,' Gardener said.

Don  Hagarty  slowly  held  his  hands  up  in  front  of  his  face.  'I  saw  
them  as  clearly  as  I  can
see  my  own  fingers  at  this  moment.  Thousands  of  them.  You  couldn't  
even  see  the  underside
of  the  bridge  —  there  were  too  many  of  them.  They  were  rippling  a  
little,  and  sort  of
bouncing up and down. There was a sound. A funny low squealing noise. That was 
their sides
rubbing  together.  And  strings.  There  was  a  forest  of  white  strings  
hanging  down.  They  looked
like  white  strands  of  spiderweb.  The  clown  took  Ade  under  there.  I  
could see its suit brushing
through  those  strings.  Ade  was  making  awful  choking  sounds.  I  started 
 after  him  .  .  .  and  the
clown looked back. I saw its eyes, and all at once I understood who it was.'

'Who was it, Don?' Harold Gardener asked softly.
'It was Derry,' Don Hagarty said. 'It was this town.'
'And what did you do then?' It was Reeves.


'I ran, you dumb shit,' Hagarty said, and burst into tears.

17

Harold  Gardener  kept  his  peace  until  November  13th,  the  day  before  
John  Garton  and  Steven
Dubay  were  to  go  on  trial  in  Derry  District  Court  for  the  murder  
of  Adrian  Mellon.  Then  he
went  to  see  Tom  Boutillier.  He  wanted  to  talk  about  the  clown.  
Boutillier  didn't  —  but when
he saw Gardener might do something stupid without a little guidance, he did.

There  was  no  clown,  Harold.  The  only  clowns  out  that  night  were  
those  three  kids.  You
know that as well as I do.'

'We have two witnesses — '

'Oh,  that's  crap.  Unwin  decided  to  bring  on  the  One-Armed  Man,  as  
in  "We  didn't  kill  the
poor  little  faggot,  it  was  the  one-armed  man,"  as  soon  as  he  
understood  he'd  really  gotten  his
buns  into  some  hot  water  this  time.  Hagarty  was  hysterical.  He  stood 
 by  and  watched  those
kids murder his best friend. It wouldn't have surprised me if he'd seen flying 
saucers.'

But  Boutillier  knew  better.  Gardener  could  see  it  in  his  eyes,  and  
the  Assistant  DA's
ducking and dodging irritated him.

'Come on,' he said. 'We're talking about independent witnesses here. Don't 
bullshit me.'

'Oh,  you  want  to  talk  bullshit?  Are  you  telling  me  you  believe  
there  was  a  vampire  clown
under the Main Street Bridge? Because that's my idea of bullshit.'

'No, not exactly, but — '

'Or  that  Hagarty  saw  a  billion  balloons  under  there,  each  imprinted  
with  exactly  the  same
thing as what was written on his lover's hat? Because that is also my idea of 
bullshit.'

'No, but — '

'Then why are you bothering with this?'

'Stop  cross-examining me!'  Gardener  roared.  'They  both  described  it  the 
 same  and  neither
knew what the other one was saying!'

Boutillier  had  been  sitting  at  his  desk,  playing  with  a  pencil.  Now  
he  put  the  pencil  down,
got  up,  and  walked  over  to  Harold  Gardener.  Boutillier  was  five  
inches  shorter,  but  Gardener
retreated a step before the man's anger.

'Do you want us to lose this case, Harold?'
'No. Of course n — '

'Do you want those running sores to walk free?'

'No!'

'Okay.  Good.  Since  we  both  agree  on  the  basics,  I'll  tell  you  
exactly  what  I  think.  Yes,
there  was  probably  a  man  under  the  bridge  that  night.  Maybe  he  was  
even  wearing  a  clown
suit,  although  I've  dealt  with  enough  witnesses  to  guess  maybe  it  
was  just  a  stewbum  or  a
transient  wearing  a  bunch  of  cast-off  clothes.  I  think  he  was  
probably  down  there  scrounging
for dropped  change  or  roadmeat  —  half  a  burger  someone  chucked  over  
the  side,  or  maybe
the  crumbs  from  the  bottom  of  a  Frito  bag.  Their  eyes  did  the  
rest,  Harold.  Now  is  that
possible?'

'I  don't  know,'  Harold  said.  He  wanted  to  be  convinced,  but  given  
the  exact  tally of the two
descriptions . . . no. He didn't think it was possible.

'Here's  the  bottom  line.  I  don't  care  if  it  was  Kinko  the  Klown  or 
 a  guy  in  an  Uncle  Sam
suit  on  stilts  or  Hubert  the  Happy  Homo.  If  we  introduce  this  
fellow  into  the  case,  their
lawyer  is  going  to  be  on  it  before  you  can  say  "Jack  Robinson".  
He's  going  to  say  those  two
little  innocent  lambs  out  there  with  their  fresh  haircuts  and  new  
suits  didn't  do  anything  but
toss  that  gay  fellow  Mellon  over  the  side  of  the  bridge  for  a  
joke.  He'll point out that Mellon
was still alive after he took the fall; they have Hagarty's testimony as well 
as Unwin's for that.


'His  clients  didn't  commit  murder,  oh  no!  It  was  a  psycho  in  a  
clown  suit.  If  we  introduce
this, that's going to happen and you know it.'

'Unwin's going to tell that story anyhow.'

'But  Hagarty  isn't,'  Boutillier  said.  'Because   he  understands.  Without 
 Hagarty,  who's  going
to believe Unwin?'

'Well,  there's  us,'  Harold  Gardener  said  with  a  bitterness  that  
surprised  even  himself, 'but I

guess we're not telling.'

'Oh,  give  me  a  break!'  Boutillier  roared,  throwing  up  his  hands.   
'They  killed  him!  They
didn't  just  throw  him  over  the  side   —  Garton  had  a  switchblade.  
Mellon  was  stabbed  seven
times,  including  once  in  the  left  lung  and  twice  in  the  testicles.  
The  wounds  match  the  blade.
Four  of  his  ribs  were  broken  —  Dubay  did  that,  bear-hugging him. He 
was bitten, all right.
There  were  bites  on  his  arms,  his  left  cheek,  his  neck.  I  think  
that  was  Unwin  and  Garton,
although  we've only got one clear match, and that one's probably not clear 
enough to stand up
in  court.  And  so  all  right,  there  was  a  big  chunk  of  meat  gone  
from  his  right  armpit,  so  what?
One  of  them  really  liked  to  bite.  Probably  even  got  himself  a  
pretty  good  bone-on while he
was  doing  it.  I'm  betting  Garton,  although  we'll  never  prove  it.  And 
 Mellon's  earlobe  was
gone.'

Boutillier stopped, glaring at Harold.

'If we let in this clown story we'll never bring it home to them. Do you want 
that?'
'No, I told you.'

'The  guy  was  a  fruit,  but  he  wasn't  hurting  anyone,'  Boutillier  
said.  'So  hi-ho-the-dairy-o,
along  come  these  three  pusholes  in  their  engineer  boots  and  they  
steal  his  life.  I'm  going  to

put them in the slam, my friend, and if I hear they got their puckery little 
assholes cored down
there at Thomaston, I'm gonna send them cards saying I hope whoever did it had 
AIDS.'

Very fiery,  Gardener thought.  And the convictions will also look very good on 
your record
when you run for the top spot in two years.

But he left without saying more, because he also wanted to see them put away.

18

John  Webber  Garton  was  convicted  of  first-degree  manslaughter  and  
sentenced  to  ten  to
twenty years in Thomaston State Prison.

Steven  Bishoff  Dubay  was  convicted  of  first-degree  manslaughter  and  
sentenced  to  fifteen

years in Shawshank State Prison.

Christopher   Philip   Unwin   was   tried   separately   as   a   juvenile   
and   convicted   of   second-
degree  manslaughter.  He  was  sentenced  to  six  months  at  the  South  
Windham  Boys ' Training
Facility, sentence suspended.

At  the  time  of  this  writing,  all  three  sentences  are  under  appeal;  
Garton  and  Dubay  may  be
seen  on  any  given  day  girl-watching  or  playing  Penny  Pitch  in  Bassey 
 Park,  not  far  from
where  Mellon's  torn  body  was  found  floating  against  one  of  the  
pilings  of  the  Main  Street
Bridge.

Don Hagarty and Chris Unwin have left town.

At the major trial — that of Garton and Dubay — no one mentioned a clown.


C H A P T E R  3

Six Phone Calls (1985)

1

Stanley Uris Takes a Bath

Patricia  Uris  later  told  her  mother  she  should  have  known  something  
was  wrong.  She  should
have  known  it,  she  said,  because  Stanley  never  took baths in the early 
evening. He showered
early  each  morning  and  sometimes  soaked  late  at  night  (with  a  
magazine  in  one  hand  and  a
cold beer in the other), but baths at 7:00 P.M . were not his style.

And  then  there  was  the  thing  about  the  books.  It  should  have  
delighted  him;  instead,  in
some  obscure  way  she  did  not  understand,  it  seemed  to  have  upset  
and  depressed him. About
three  months  before  that  terrible  night,  Stanley  had  discovered  that  
a  childhood  friend  of  his
had turned out to be a writer  — not a  real  writer, Patricia told her mother, 
but a novelist. The
name  on  the  books  was  William  Denbrough,  but  Stanley  had  sometimes  
called  him  Stuttering
Bill.  He  had  worked  his  way  through  almost  all  of  the  man's  books;  
had,  in  fact,  been  reading
the  last  on  the  night  of  the  bath —  the  night  of  May  28th,  1985.  
Patty  herself  had  picked  up
one of the earlier ones, out of curiosity. She had put it down after just three 
chapters.

It had not just been a novel, she told her mother later; it had been a 
horrorbook. She said it
just  that  way,  all  one  word,  the  way  she  would  have  said  sexbook.  
Patty  was  a  sweet,  kind
woman,  but  not  terribly  articulate  —  she  had  wanted  to  tell  her  
mother  how  much  that  book
had  frightened  her  and  why  it  had  upset  her,  but  had  not  been  
able.  'It  was  full  of  monsters,'
she  said.  'Full  of  monsters  chasing  after  little  children.  There  were 
 killings,  and  .  .  .  I  don't
know  .  .  .  bad  feelings  and  hurt.  Stuff  like  that.'  It  had,  in  
fact,  struck  her  as  almost
pornographic;  that  was  the  word  which  kept  eluding  her,  probably  
because  she  had  never  in
her  life  spoken  it,  although  she  knew  what  it  meant.  But  Stan  felt  
as  if  he'd  rediscovered  one
of  his  childhood  chums  .  .  .  .  He  talked  about  writing  to  him,  
but  I  knew  he  wouldn't  .  .  .  I
knew those stories made him feel bad, too . . . and . . . and . . . '

And then Patty Uris began to cry.

That  night,  lacking  roughly  six  months  of  being  twenty-eight  years  
from  the  day  in  1957
when  George  Denbrough  had  met  Pennywise  the  Clown,  Stanley  and  Patty  
had  been  sitting
in  the  den  of  their  home  in  a  suburb  of  Atlanta.  The  TV  was  on.  
Patty  was  sitting  in  the  love-
seat  in  front  of  it,  dividing  her  attention  between  a  pile  of  
sewing  and  her  favorite  game-
show,  Family   Feud.  She  simply  adored  Richard  Dawson  and  thought  the  
watch-chain  he
always  wore  was  terribly  sexy,  although  wild  horses  would  not  have  
drawn  this  admission
out  of  her.  She  also  liked  the  show  because  she  almost  always  got  
the  most  popular  answers
(there were no  right  answers on  Family Feud,  exactly; only the most popular 
ones). She had
once  asked  Stan  why  the  questions  that  seemed  so  easy  to  her  
usually seemed so hard to the
families  on  the  show.  'It's  probably  a  lot  tougher  when  you're  up  
there  under  those  lights,'
Stanley  had  replied,  and  it  seemed  to  her  that  a  shadow  had  drifted 
 over  his  face.  'Every-
thing's a lot tougher when it's for real. That's when you choke. When it's for 
real.'

That  was  probably  very  true,  she  decided.  Stanley  had  really  fine  
insights  into  human
nature  sometimes.  Much  finer,  she  considered,  than  his  old  friend   
William  Denbrough,  who
had gotten rich writing a bunch of horrorbooks which appealed to people's baser 
natures.

Not  that  the  Urises  were  doing  so  badly  themselves!  The  suburb  where 
 they  lived  was  a
fine  one,  and  the  home  which  they  had  purchased  for  $87,000  in  1979 
 would  probably  now


sell  quickly  and  painlessly  for  $165,000  —  not  that  she  wanted  to  
sell,  but  such  things  were
good  to  know.  She  sometimes  drove  back  from  the  Fox  Run  Mall  in  
her  Volvo  (Stanley
drove  a  Mercedes  diesel  —  teasing  him,  she  called  it  Sedanley)  and  
saw  her  house,  set
tastefully back behind low yew hedges, and thought:  Who lives there? Why, I 
do! Mrs Stanley
Uris does!  This  was  not  an  entirely  happy  thought;  mixed  with  it  was 
 a  pride  so  fierce  that  it
sometimes  made  her  feel  a  bit  ill.  Once  upon  a  time,  you  see,  
there  had  been  a  lonely
eighteen-year-old  girl  named  Patricia  Blum  who  had  been  refused  entry  
to  the  after-prom
party                 that  was  held  at  the  country  club  in  the  upstate 
 town  of  Glointon,  New  York.  She  had
been  refused  admission,  of  course,  because  her  last  name  rhymed  with  
plum.  That  was her,
just  a  skinny  little  kike  plum,  1967  that  had  been,  and  such  
discrimination  was  against  the
law,  of  course,  har-de-har-har-har,  and  besides,  it  was  all  over  now. 
 Except  that  for  part  of
her it was  never  going  to  be  over.  Part  of  her  would  always  be 
walking back to the car with
Michael  Rosenblatt,  listening  to  the  crushed  gravel  under  her  pumps  
and  his  rented  formal
shoes,  back  to  his  father's  car,  which  Michael  had  borrowed  for  the  
evening,  and  which  he
had  spent  the  afternoon  waxing.  Part  of  her  would  always  be  walking  
next  to  Michael  in  his
rented  white  dinner  jacket  —  how  it  had  glimmered  in  the  soft  
spring  night!  She  had  been  in
a  pale  green  evening  gown  which  her  mother  declared  made  her  look  
like  a  mermaid,  and  the
idea  of  a  kike  mermaid  was  pretty  funny,  har-de-har-har-har.  They  had 
 walked  with  their
heads  up  and  she  had  not  wept  —  not  then  —  but she had understood 
they weren't  walking
back,  no,  not  really;  what  they  had  been  doing  was  slinking  back,  
slinking,  rhymes  with
stinking,  both  of  the m  feeling  more  Jewish  than  they  had  ever  felt  
in  their  lives,  feeling  like
pawnbrokers,   feeling   like   cattle -car   riders,   feeling   oily,   
long-nosed,   sallow-skinned;  feeling
like  mockies  sheenies  kikes;  wanting  to  feel  angry  and  not  being  
able  to  feel  angry,  ht e anger
came  only  later,  when  it  didn't  matter.  At  that  moment  she  had  only 
 been  able  to  feel
ashamed,  had  only  been  able  to  ache.  And  then  someone  had  laughed.  
A  high  shrill  tittering
laugh like a fast run of notes on a piano, and in the car she had been able to 
weep, oh you bet,
here  is  the  kike  mermaid  whose  name  rhymes  with  plum  just  weeping  
away  like  crazy.  Mike
Rosenblatt  had  put  a  clumsy,  comforting  hand  on  the  back  of  her  
neck  and  she  had  twisted
away from it, feeling ashamed, feeling dirty, feeling Jewish.

The  house  set  so  tastefully  back  behind  the  yew  hedges  made  that  
better  .  .  .  but  not  all
better.  The  hurt  and  shame  were  still  there,  and  not  even  being  
accepted  in  this  quiet,  sleekly
well-to-do  neighborhood  could  quite  make  that  endless  walk  with  the  
sound  of  grating  stones
beneath  their  shoes  stop  happening.  Not  even  being  members  of  this  
country  club,  where  the
maitre d'  always  greeted  them  with  a  quietly  respectful  'Good  evening, 
 Mr  and  Mrs  Uris.'  She
would  come  home,  cradled  in  her  1984 Volvo, and she would look at her 
house sitting on its
expanse  of  green  lawn,  and  she  would  often  —  all  too  often,  she  
supposed  —  think of that
shrill  titter.  And  she  would  hope  that  the  girl  who  had  tittered  
was  living  in  a  shitty  tract
house with a  goy  husband  who  beat  her,  that  she  had  been  pregnant  
three  times  and  had  mis-
carried  each  time,  that  her  husband  cheated  on  her  with  diseased  
women,  that  she  had  slipped
discs and fallen arches and cysts on her dirty tittering tongue.

She  would  hate  herself  for  these  thoughts,  these  uncharitable  
thoughts,  and  promise  to  do
better  —  to  stop  drinking  these  bitter  gall-and-wormwood  cocktails.  
Months  would  go  by

when she did not think such thoughts. She would think:  Maybe all of that is 
finally past me. I
am  not  that  girl  of  eighteen  anymore.  I  am  a  woman  of  thirty-six; 
the girl who heard the
endless  click  and  grate  of  those  driveway  stones,  the  girl  who  
twisted  away  from  Mike
Rosenblatt's hand when he tried to comfort her because it was a Jewish hand, 
was half a life
ago. That silly little mermaid is dead. I can forget her now and just be 
myself. Okay. Good.
Great.  But  then  she  would  be  somewhere   —  at  the  supermarket,  maybe  
 —  and  she  would
hear  sudden  tittering  laughter  from  the  next  aisle  and  her  back  
would  prickle,  her  nipples
would  go  hard  and  hurtful,  her  hands  would  tighten  on  the  bar  of  
the  shopping  cart  or  just  on


each  other,  and  she  would  think:  Someone  just  told  someone  else  that 
 I'm  Jewish,  that  I'm
nothing but a bignose mockie kike, that Stanley's nothing but a bignose mockie 
kike, he's an
accountant, sure, Jews are good with numbers, we let them into the country 
club, we had to,
back in 1981 when that bignose mockie gynecologist won his suit, but we laugh 
at them, we
laugh  and  laugh  and  laugh.  Or  she  would simply hear the phantom click 
and grate of stones
and think Mermaid! Mermaid!

Then  the  hate  and  shame  would  come  flooding  back  like  a  migraine  
headache  and  she
would  despair  not  only  for  herself  but  for  the  whole  human  race.  
Werewolves.  The  book  by
Denbrough  —  the  one  she  had  tried  to  read  and  then  put  aside  —  
was about werewolves.
Werewolves, shit. What did a man like that know about werewolves?

Most  of  the  time,  however,  she  felt  better  than  that   —  felt  she  
was  better than that. She
loved  her  man,  she  loved  her  house,  and  she  was  usually  able  to  
love  her  life  and  herself.
Things  were  good.  They  had  not  always  been  that  way,  of  course  — 
were things ever? When
she  accepted  Stanley's  engagement  ring,  her  parents  had  been  both  
angry  and  unhappy.  She
had  met  him  at  a  sorority  party.  He  had  come  over  to  her  school  
from  New  York  State
University,  where  he  was  a  scholarship  student.  They  had  been  
introduced  by  a  mutual  friend,
and  by  the  time  the  evening  was  over,  she  suspected  that  she  loved  
him.  By  the  mid-term
break,  she  was  sure.  When  spring  came  around  and  Stanley  offered  her 
 a  small  diamond  ring
with a daisy pushed through it, she had accepted it.

In the end, in spite of their qualms, her parents had accepted it as well. 
There was little else
they  could  do,  although  Stanley  Uris  would  soon  be  sallying  forth  
into  a  job-market  glutted
with young accountants  —  and  when  he  went  into  that  jungle,  he  would  
do  so  with  no  family
finances  to  backstop  him,  and  with  their  only  daughter  as  his  
hostage  to  fortune.  But  Patty
was twenty-two, a woman now, and would herself soon graduate with a BA.

'I'll be  supporting  that  four-eyed  son  of  a  bitch  for  the  rest  of  
my  life,'  Patty  had  heard  her
father  say  one  night.  Her  mother  and  father  had  gone  out  for  
dinner, and her father had drunk
a little too much.

'Shh, she'll hear you,' Ruth Blum said.

Patty  had  lain  awake  that  night  until  long  after  midnight,  dry-eyed,  
alternately  hot  and
cold,  hating  them  both.  She  had  spent  the  next  two  years  trying  to  
get  rid  of  that  hate;  there
was  too  much  hate  inside  her  already.  Sometimes  when  she  looked  into 
 the  mirror  she  could
see  the  things  it  was  doing  to  her  face,  the  fine  lines  it  was  
drawing  there.  That  was  a  battle
she won. Stanley had helped her.

His  own  parents  had  been  equally  concerned  about  the  marriage.  They  
did  not,  of  course,
believe  their  Stanley  was  destined  for  a  life  of  squalor  and  
poverty,  but  they  thought  'the  kids
were  being  hasty.'  Donald  Uris  and  Andrea  Bertoly  had  themselves  
married  in  their  early
twenties, but they seemed to have forgotten the fact.

Only  Stanley  had  seemed  sure  of  himself,  confident  of  the  future,  
unconcerned  with  the
pitfalls  their  parents  saw  strewn  all  about  'the  kids.'  And  in  the  
end  it  was  his  confidence
rather  than their fears which had been justified. In July of 1972, with the 
ink barely dry on her
diploma,  Patty  had  landed  a  job  teaching  shorthand  and  business  
English  in  Traynor,  a  small
town  forty  miles  south  of  Atlanta.  When  she  thought  of  how  she  had  
come  by  that  job,  it
always  struck  her  as  a  little  —  well, eerie. She had made a list of 
forty possibles from the ads
in  the  teachers'  journals,  then  had  written  forty  letters  over  five  
nights   —  eight  each  evening

—  requesting  further  information  on  the  job,  and  an application  for  
each.  Twenty-two replies
indicated  that  the  positions  had  been  filled.  In  other  cases,  a  more 
 detailed  explanation  of  the
skills  needed  made  it  clear  she  wasn't  in  the  running;  applying  
would  only  be  a  waste  of  her
time  and  theirs.  She  had finished  with  a  dozen  possibles.  Each  looked 
 as  likely  as  any  other.
Stanley  had  come  in  while  she  was  puzzling  over  them  and  wondering  
if  she  could  possibly
manage  to  fill  out  a  dozen  teaching  applications  without  going  
totally  bonkers.  He  looked  at


the  strew of papers on the table and then tapped the letter from the Traynor 
Superintendent of
Schools, a letter which to her looked no more or less encouraging than any of 
the others.

'There,' he said.

She   looked   up   at   him,   startled   by   the   simple   certainty   in   
his   voice.   'Do   you   know
something about Georgia that I don't?'

'Nope. Only time I was ever there was at the movies.'

She looked at him, an eyebrow cocked.

'Gone   with   the   Wind.  Vivien  Leigh.  Clark  Gable.  "I  will  think  
about  it  tomorrow,   for
tomorrow is anothah day." Do I sound like I come from the South, Patty?'

'Yes.  South  Bronx.  If  you  don't  know  anything  about  Georgia  and  
you've  never  been  there,
then why — '

'Because it's right.'

'You can't know that, Stanley.'

'Sure  I  can,'  he  said  simply.  'I   do.' Looking at him, she had seen he 
wasn't joking: he really
meant it. She had felt a ripple of unease go up her back.

'How do you know?'

He  had  been  smiling  a  little.  Now  the  smile  faltered,  and  for  a  
moment  he  had  seemed
puzzled.  His  eyes  had  darkened,  as  if  he  looked  inward,  consulting  
some  interior  device
which  ticked  and  whirred  correctly  but  which,  ultimately,  he  
understood  no  more  than  the
average man understands the workings of the watch on his wrist.

'The  turtle  couldn't  help  us,'  he  said  suddenly.  He  said  that  quite  
clearly.  She  heard  it.  That
inward  look  —  that  look  of  surprised  musing  —  was  still  on  his  
face,  and  it  was  starting  to
scare her.

'Stanley? What are you talking about? Stanley?

He  jerked.  She  had  been  eating  peaches  as  she  went  over  the  
applications,  and  his  hand
struck the dish. It fell on the floor and broke. His eyes seemed to clear.

'Oh, shit! I'm sorry.'

'It's all right. Stanley — what were you talking about?'

'I forget,' he said. 'But I think we ought to think Georgia, baby-love.'
'But — '

'Trust me,' he said, so she did.

Her  interview  had  gone  smashingly.  She  had  known  she  had  the  job  
when  she  got  on  the
train  back  to  New  York.  The  head  of  the  Business  Department  had  
taken  an  instant  liking  to
Patty,  and  she  to  him;  she  had  almost  heard  the  click.  The  
confirming  letter  had  come  a  week
later.   The   Traynor   Consolidated   School   Department   could   offer   
her   $9,200   and   a
probationary contract.

'You  are  going  to  starve,'  Herbert  Blum  said  when  his  daughter  told  
him  she  intended  to
take the job. 'And you will be hot while you starve.'

'Fiddle-dee-dee, Scarlett,' Stanley said when she told him what her father had 
said. She had

been furious, near tears, but now she began to giggle, and Stanley swept her 
into his arms.

Hot  they  had  been;  starved  they  had  not.  They  were  married  on  
August  19th,  1972.  Patty
Uris  had  gone  to  her  marriage  bed  a  virgin.  She  had  slipped  naked  
between  cool  sheets  at  a
resort  hotel  in  the  Poconos,  her  mood  turbulent  and  stormy  —  
lightning-flares of wanting and
delicious  lust,  dark  clouds  of  fright.  When  Stanley  slid  into  bed  
beside  her,  ropy  with  muscle,
his  penis  an  exclamation  point  rising  from  gingery  pubic  hair,  she  
had  whispered:  'Don't hurt
me, dear.'

'I will never hurt you,' he said as he took her in his arms, and it was a 
promise he had kept
faithfully until May 27th, 1985 — the night of the bath.

Her  teaching  had  gone  well.  Stanley  got  a  job  driving  a  bakery  
truck  for  one   hundred

dollars  a  week.  In  November  of  that  year,  when  the  Traynor  Flats  
Shopping  Center  opened,


he  got  a  job  with  the  H  &  R  Block  office  out  there  for  a  hundred 
 and  fifty.  Their  combined
income  was  then  $17,000  a  year  —  this  seemed  a  king's  ransom  to  
the m, in those days when
gas  sold  for  thirty-five  cents  a  gallon  and  a  loaf  of  white  bread  
could  be  had  for  a  nickel  less
than  that.  In  March  1973,  with  no  fuss  and  no  fanfare,  Patty  Uris  
had  thrown  away  her  birth-
control pills.

In  1975  Stanley  quit  H  &  R  Block  and  opened  his  own  business.  All  
four  in-laws agreed
that  this  was  a  foolhardy  move.  Not  that  Stanley  should  not  have  
his  own  business  — God
forbid  he  should  not  have  his  own  business!  But  it  was  too  early,  
all  of  them  agreed,  and  it
put  too  much  of  the  financial  burden  on  Patty.  ('At  least  until  the 
 pisher  knocks  her  up,'
Herbert  Blum  told  his  brother  morosely  after  a  night  of  drinking  in  
the  kitchen,  'and  then  I'll
be  expected  to  carry  them.')  The  consensus  of  in-law  opinion  on  the  
matter  was  that  a man
should  not  even  think   about  going  into  business  for  himself  until  
he  had  reached  a  more
serene and mature age — seventy-eight, say.

Again,  Stanley  seemed  almost  preternaturally  confident.  He  was  young,  
personable,  bright,
apt.  He  had  made  contacts  working  for  Block.  All  of  these  things  
were  givens.  But  he  could
not  have  known  that  Corridor  Video,  a  pioneer  in  the  nascent  
videotape  business,  was  about
to  settle  on  a  huge  patch  of  farmed-out  land  less  than  ten  miles  
from  the  suburb  to  which  the
Urises  had  eventually  moved  in  1979,  nor  could  he  have  known  that  
Corridor  would  be  in  the
market  for  an  independent  marketing  survey  less  than  a  year  after  
its  move  to  Traynor.  Even
if  Stan  had  been  privy  to  some  of  this  information,  he  surely  could 
 not  have  believed they
would give the job to a young, bespectacled Jew who also happened to be a 
damyankee  — a
Jew  with  an  easy  grin,  a  hipshot  way  of  walking,  a  taste  for  
bell-bottomed  jeans  on  his  days
off, and the last ghosts of his adolescent acne still on his  face. Yet they 
had. They had. And it
seemed that Stan had known it all along.

His  work  for  CV  led  to  an  offer  of  a  full-time position with the 
company  — starting salary,

$30,000 a year.

'And  that  really  is  only  the  start,'  Stanley  told  Patty  in  bed  that 
 night.  'They  are  going  to
grow  like  corn  in  August,  my  dear.  If  no  one  blows  up  the  world  
in  the  next  ten  years  or  so,
they are going to be right up there on the big board along with Kodak and Sony 
and RCA.'

'So what are you going to do?' she asked, already knowing.

'I  am  going  to  tell  them  what  a  pleasure  it  was  to  do  business  
with  them,'  he  said,  and
laughed,  and  drew  her  close,  and  kissed  her.  Moments  later  he  
mounted  her,  and  there  were
climaxes —  one,  two,  and  three,  like  bright  rockets  going off in a 
night sky . . . but there was
no baby.

His  work  with  Corridor  Video  had  brought  him  into  contact  with  some  
of  Atlanta's  richest
and most powerful men  —  and  they  were  both  astonished  to  find  that  
these  men  were  mostly
okay.  In  them  they  found   a   degree   of   acceptance   and   
broad-minded  kindliness  that  was
almost  unknown  in  the  North.  Patty  remembered  Stanley  once  writing  
home  to  his  mother
and father:  The best rich men in America live in Atlanta, Georgia. I am going 
to help make
some  of  them  richer, and they are going to make  me richer, and no one is 
going to own me
except my wife, Patricia, and since I already own her, I guess that is safe 
enough.

By  the  time  they  moved  from  Traynor,  Stanley  was  incorporated  and  
employed  six  people.

In  1983  their  income  had  entered  unknown  territory  —  territory  of  
which  Patty  had  heard
only  the  dimmest  rumors.  This  was  the  fabled  land  of  six  FIGURES.  
And  it  had  all  happened
with  the  casual  ease  of  slipping  into  a  pair  of  sneakers  on  
Saturday  morning.  This  sometimes
frightened  her.  Once  she  had  made  an  uneasy  joke  about  deals  with  
the  devil.  Stanley  had
laughed  until  he  almost  choked,  but  to  her  it  hadn't  seemed  that  
funny,  and  she  supposed  it
never would.

The turtle couldn't help us.


Sometimes,  for  no  reason  at  all,  she  would  wake  up  with  this  
thought  in  her  mind  like  the
last  fragment  of  an  otherwise  forgotten  dream,  and  she  would  turn  to 
 Stanley,  needing  to
touch him, needing to make sure he was still there.

It  was  a  good  life  — there was no wild  drinking, no outside sex, no 
drugs, no boredom, no
bitter arguments about what to do next. There was only a single cloud. It was 
her mother who
first  mentioned  the  presence  of  this  cloud.  That  her  mother  would  be 
 the  one  to  finally  do  so
seemed,  in  retrospect,  preordained.  It  finally  came  out  as  a  question 
 in  one  of  Ruth  Slum's
letters.  She  wrote  Patty  once  a  week,  and  that  particular  letter  had 
 arrived  in  the  early  fall  of
1979. It came forwarded from the old Traynor address and Patty read it in a 
living  room filled
with  cardboard  liquor-store  cartons  from  which  spilled  their  
possessions,  looking  forlorn  and
uprooted and dispossessed.

In  most  ways  it  was  the  usual  Ruth  Blum  Letter  from  Home:  four  
closely  written  blue
pages, each one headed  JUST  A NOTE FROM RUTH. Her scrawl was nearly 
illegible, and Stanley
had  once  complained  he  could  not  read  a  single  word  his  
mother-in-law wrote. 'Why would
you want to?' Patty had responded.

This  one  was  full  of  Mom's  usual  brand  of  news;  for  Ruth  Blum  
recollection was a broad
delta,  spreading  out  from  the  moving  point  of  the  now  in  an  
ever-widening  fan  of  interlocking
relationships.  Many  of  the  people  of  whom  her  mother  wrote  were  
beginning  to  fade  in
Patty's  memory  like  photographs  in  an  old  album,  but  to  Ruth  all of 
them remained fresh. Her
concerns  for  their  health  and  her  curiosity  about  their  various  
doings  never  seemed  to  wane,
and  her  prognoses  were  unfailingly  dire.  Her  father  was  still  having  
too  many  stomach-aches.
He  was  sure  it  was  just  dyspepsia;  the di ea that he might have an 
ulcer, she wrote, would not
cross  his  mind  until  he  actually  began  coughing  up  blood  and  
probably  not  even  then.  You
know your father, dear — he works like a mule, and he also thinks like one 
sometimes, God
should  forgive  me  for  saying so.  Randi Harlengen had gotten her tubes 
tied, they took cysts as
big  as  golf-balls  out  of  her  ovaries,  no  malignancy,  thank  God,  but  
twenty-seven  ovarian
cysts, could you  die! It was the water in New York City, she was quite sure of 
that  — the city
air was dirty, too, but she was convinced it was the water that really got to 
you after awhile. It
built  up  deposits  inside  a  person.  She  doubted  if  Patty  knew  how  
often  she  had  thanked  God
that  'you  kids'  were  out  in  the  country,  where  both  air  and  water  
—  but particularly the water

—   were  healthier  (to  Ruth  all  of  the  South,  including  Atlanta  and  
Birmingham,  was  the
country).  Aunt  Margaret  was  feuding  with  the  power  company  again.  
Stella  Flanagan  had
gotten married again, some people never learned. Richie Huber had been fired 
again.

And  in  the  middle  of  this  chatty  —  and  often  catty  —  outpouring,  
in  the  middle  of  a
paragraph,  a propos   of  nothing  which  had  gone  before  or  which  came  
after,  Ruth  Blum  had
casually   asked   the   Dreaded   Question:   'So   when   are   you   and   
Stan   going   to   make   us
grandparents?  We're  all  ready  to  start  spoiling  him  (or  her)  rotten.  
And  in  case  you  hadn't
noticed,  Patsy,  we're  not  getting  any  younger.'  And  then  on  to  the  
Bruckner  girl  from  down
the  block  who  had  been  sent  home  from  school because she was wearing no 
bra and a blouse
that you could see right through.

Feeling  low  and  homesick  for  their  old  place  in  Traynor,  feeling  
unsure  and  more  than  a
little  afraid  of  what  might  be  ahead,  Patty  had  gone  into  what  was  
to  become  their  bedroom
and  had  lain  down  upon  the  mattress  (the  box  spring  was  still  out  
in  the  garage,  and  the
mattress,  lying  all  by  itself  on  the  big  carpetless  floor,  looked  
like  an  artifact  cast  up  on  a
strange  yellow  beach).  She  put  her  head  in  her  arms  and  lay  there  
weeping  for  nearly  twenty
minutes.  She  supposed  that  cry  had  been  coming  anyway.  Her  mother's  
letter  had  just  brought
it on sooner, the way dust hurries the tickle in your nose into a sneeze.

Stanley  wanted  kids.  She  wanted  kids.  They  were  as  compatib le  on  
that  subject  as  they
were  on  their  enjoyment  of  Woody  Alien's  films,  their  more  or  less  
regular  attendance  at
synagogue,  their  political  leanings,  their  dislike  of  marijuana,  a  
hundred  other  things  both


great  and  small.  There  had  been  an  extra  room  in  the  Traynor  house, 
 which  they  had  split
evenly down the middle. On the left he had a desk for working and a chair for 
reading; on the
right  she  had  a  sewing  machine  and  a  cardtable  where  she  did  jigsaw 
 puzzles.  There  had  been
an  agreement  between  them  about that room so strong they rarely spoke  of 
it  — it was simply
there,  like  their  noses  or  the  wedding  rings  on  their  left  hands.  
Someday  that  room  would
belong  to  Andy  or  to  Jenny.  But  where  was  that  child?  The  sewing  
machine  and  the  baskets
of  fabric  and  the  cardtable  and  the  desk  and  the  La-Z-Boy all kept 
their places, seeming each
month  to  solidify  their  holds  on  their  respective  positions  in  the  
room  and  to  further  establish
their  legitimacy.  So  she  thought,  although  she  never  could  quite  
crystallize  the  thought;  like
the word  pornographic,  it  was  a  concept  that  danced  just  beyond  her  
ability  to  quantify.  But
she  did  remember  one  time  when  she  got  her  period,  sliding  open  the 
 cupboard  under  the
bathroom  sink  to  get  a  sanitary  napkin;  she  remembered  looking  at  
the  box  of  Stayfree  pads
and  thinking  that  the  box  looked  almost  smug,  seemed  almost  to  be  
saying:  Hello, Patty! We
are your children. We are the only children you will ever have, and we are 
hungry. Nurse us.
Nurse us on blood.

In  1976,  three  years  after  she  had  thrown  away  the  last  cycle  of  
Ovral  tablets,  they  saw  a
doctor  named  Harkavay  in  Atlanta.  'We  want  to  know  if  there  is  
something  wrong,'  Stanley
said, 'and we want to know if we can do anything about it if there is.'

They  took  the  tests.  They  showed  that  Stanley's  sperm  was  perky,  
that  Patty's  eggs  were
fertile, that all the channels that were supposed to be open were open.

Harkavay,  who  wore  no  wedding  ring  and  who  had  the  open,  pleasant,  
ruddy  face  of  a
college  grad  student  just  back  from  a  midterm  skiing  vacation  in  
Colorado,  told  them  that

maybe  it  was just  nerves. He told  them  that  such a  problem was by no 
means  uncommon. He
told  them  that  there  seemed  to  be  a  psychological  correlative  in  
such  cases  that  was  in  some
ways  similar to sexual impotency   —  the  more  you  wanted  to,  the  less  
you  could.  They  would
have to relax. They ought, if they could, to forget all about procreation when 
they had sex.

Stan was grumpy on the way home. Patty asked him why.
'I never do,' he said.

'Do what?'

'Think of procreation during. '

She  began  to  giggle,  even  though  she  was  by  then  feeling  a  bit  
lonesome  and  frightened.
And  that  night,  lying  in  bed,  long  after  she  believed  that  Stanley  
must  be  asleep,  he  had
frightened  her  by  speaking  out  of  the  dark.  His  voice  was  flat  but  
nevertheless  choked  with
tears. 'It's me,' he said. 'It's my fault.'

She rolled toward him, groped for him, held him.

'Don't  be  a  stupid,'  she  said.  But  her  heart  was  beating  fast  —  
much too fast. It wasn't just
that  he  had  startled  her;  it  was  as  if  he  had  looked  into  her  
mind  and  read  a  secret  conviction
she  held  there  but  of  which  she  had  not  known  until  this  minute.  
With  no  rhyme,  no  reason,
she felt  — knew  —  that  he  was  right.  There  was  something  wrong,  and  
it  wasn't  her.  It  was
him. Something in him.

'Don't  be  such  a  klutz,'  she  whispered  fiercely  against  his  shoulder. 
 He  was  sweating  lightly
and  she  became  suddenly  aware  that  he  was  afraid.  The  fear  was  
coming  off  him  in  cold
waves; lying naked with him was suddenly like lying naked in front of an open 
refrigerator.

'I'm   not   a   klutz   and   I'm   not   being   stupid,'   he   said   in   
that   same   voice,   which   was
simultaneously  flat  and  choked  with  emotion,  'and  you  know  it.  It's  
me.  But  I  don't  know
why.'

'You  can't  know  any  such  thing.'  Her  voice  was  harsh,  scolding  — her 
mother's voice when
her mother was afraid. And even as she scolded him a shudder ran through her 
body, twisting
it like a whip. Stanley felt it and his arms tightened around her.


'Sometimes,'  he  said,  'sometimes  I  think  I  know  why.  Sometimes  I  
have  a  dream,  a  bad
dream,  and  I  wake  up  and  I  think,  "I  know  now.  I  know  what's  
wrong."  Not  just  you  not
catching pregnant — everything. Everything that's wrong with my life.'

'Stanley, nothing's wrong with your life!'

'I   don't   mean   from   inside,'   he   said.   'From   inside   is   fine.  
 I'm   talking   about   outside.
Something  that  should  be  over  and  isn't.  I  wake  up  from  these  
dreams  and  think,  "My  whole
pleasant  life  has  been  nothing  but  the  eye  of some  storm  I  don't  
understand."  I'm  afraid.  But
then it just . . . fades. The way dreams do.'

She   knew   that   he   sometimes   dreamed   uneasily.   On   half   a   
dozen   occasions   he   had

awakened  her,  thrashing  and  moaning.  Probably  there  had  been  other  
times  when  she had
slept  through  his  dark  interludes.  Whenever  she  reached  for  him,  
asked  him,  he  said  the  same
thing:  I  can't remember.  Then  he  would  reach  for  his  cigarettes  and  
smoke  sitting  up  in  bed,
waiting for the residue of the dream to pass through his pores like bad sweat.

No  kids.  On  the  night  of  May  28th,  1985  — the night of the bath  —  
their assorted in-laws
were  still  waiting  to  be  grandparents.  The  extra  room  was  still  an  
extra  room;  the  Stayfree
Maxis  and  Stayfree  Minis  still  occupied  their  accustomed  places  in  
the  cupboard  under  the
bathroom  sink;  the  cardinal  still  paid  its  monthly  visit.  Her  mother, 
 who  was  much  occupied
with  her  own  affairs  but  not  entirely  oblivious  to  her  daughter's  
pain,  had  stopped  asking  in
her  letters  and  when  Stanley  and  Patty made their twice-yearly trips back 
to New York. There
were  no  more  humorous  remarks  about  whether  or  not  they  were  taking  
their  vitamin  E.
Stanley  had  also  stopped  mentioning  babies,  but  sometimes,  when  he  
didn't  know  she  was
looking,  she  saw  a  shadow  on  his  face.  Some  shadow.  As  if  he  were  
trying  desperately  to
remember something.

Other  than  that  one  cloud,  their  lives  were  pleasant  enough  until  
the  phone  rang  during  the
middle  of  Family  Feud  on  the  night  of  May  28th.  Patty  had  six  of  
Stan's  shirts,  two of her
blouses,  her  sewing  kit,  and  her  odd-button  box;  Stan  had  the  new  
William  Denbrough  novel,
not  even  out  in  paperback  yet,  in  his  hands.  There  was  a  snarling  
beast  on  the  front  of  this
book. On the back was a bald man wearing glasses.

Stan was sitting nearer the phone. He picked it up and said, 'Hello — Uris 
residence.'

He listened, and a frown line delved between his eyebrows. 'Who did you say?'

Patty  felt  an  instant  of  fright.  Later,  shame  would  cause  her  to  
lie  and  tell  her  parents that
she  had  known  something  was  wrong  from  the  instant  the  telephone  had 
 rung,  but  in  reality
there  had  only  been  that  one  instant,  that  one  quick  look  up  from  
her  sewing.  But  maybe  that
was  all  right.  Maybe  they  had  both  suspected  that  something  was 
coming  long  before  that
phone  call,  something  that  didn't  fit  with  the  nice  house  set  
tastefully  back  behind  the  low
yew    hedges,    something    so    much    a    given    that    it    really 
   didn't    need    much    of    an
acknowledgment  .  .  .  that  one  sharp  instant  of  fright,  like  the  
stab  of  a  quickly  withdrawn
icepick, was enough.

Is  it  Mom?  she  mouthed  at  him  in  that  instant,  thinking  that  
perhaps  her  father,  twenty
pounds  overweight  and  prone  to  what  he  called  'the  bellyache'  since  
his  early  forties,  had  had
a heart attack.

Stan  shook  his  head  at  her,  and  then  smiled  a  bit  at  something  the 
 voice  on  the  phone  was

saying. 'You . . . you! Well, I'll be goddamned! Mike! How did  y — '

He  fell  silent  again,  listening.  As  his  smile  faded  she  recognized  — 
 or  thought  she  did   —
his  analytic  expression,  the  one  which  said  someone  was  unfolding  a  
problem  or  explaining  a
sudden  change  in  an  ongoing  situation  or  telling  him  something  
strange  and  interesting.  This
last  was  probably  the  case,  she  gathered.  A  new  client?  An  old  
friend?  Perhaps.  She  turned
her  attention  back  to  the  TV,  where  a  woman  was  flinging  her  arms  
around  Richard  Dawson
and  kissing  him  madly.  She  thought  that  Richard  Dawson  must  get  
kissed  even  more  than  the
Blarney stone. She also thought she wouldn't mind kissing him herself.


As  she  began  searching  for  a  black  button  to  match  the  ones  on  
Stanley's  blue  denim  shirt,
Patty  was  vaguely  aware  that  the  conversation  was  settling  into  a  
smoother  groove  — Stanley
grunted  occasionally,  and  once  he  asked:  'Are  you  sure,  Mike?'  
Finally,  after  a  very  long
pause, he said, 'All right, I understand. Yes, I . . . Yes. Yes, everything. I 
have the picture. I . .

. what? . . . No, I can't absolutely  promise that, but I'll consider it 
carefully. You know that . .

. oh? . . . He did? . . . Well, you bet! Of course I do. Yes . . . sure . . . 
thank you . . . yes. Bye-
bye.' He hung up.

Patty glanced at him and saw him staring blankly into space over the TV set. On 
her show,
the  audience  was  applauding  the  Ryan  family,  which  had  just  scored  
two  hundred  and  eighty
points,  most  of  them  by  guessing  that  the  audience  survey  would  
answer  'math'  in  response  to
the  question  'What  class  will  people  say  Junior  hates  most  in  
school?'  The  Ryans  were
jumping  up  and  down  and  screaming  joyfully.  Stanley,  however,  was  
frowning.  She  would
later  tell  her  parents  she  thought  Stanley's  face  had  looked  a  
little  off-color,  and  so  she  did,
but  she  neglected  to  tell  them  she  had  dismissed  it  at  the  time  as 
 only  a  trick  of  the  table-
lamp, with its green glass shade.

'Who was that, Stan?'

'Hmmmm?'  He  looked  around  at  her.  She  thought  the  look  on  his  face  
was  one of gentle
abstraction,  perhaps  mixed  with  minor  annoyance.  It  was  only  later,  
replaying  the  scene  in
her  mind  again  and  again,  that  she  began  to  believe  it  was  the  
expression  of  a  man  who  was
methodically  unplugging  himself  from  reality,  one  cord  at  a  time.  The 
 face  of  a  man  who  was
heading out of the blue and into the black.

'Who was that on the phone?'

'No one,' he said. 'No one, really. I think I'll take a bath.' He stood up.
'What, at seven o'clock?'

He  didn't  answer,  only  left  the  room.  She  might  have  asked  him  if  
something  was  wrong,
might  even  have  gone  after  him  and  asked  him  if  he  was  sick  to  
his  stomach  —  he  was
sexually  uninhibited,  but  he  could  be  oddly  prim  about  other  things,  
and  it  wouldn't  be  at  all
unlike  him  to  say  he  was  going  to  take  a  bath  when  what  he  really 
 had  to  do  was  whoops
something  which  hadn't  agreed  with  him.  But  now  a  new  family,  the  
Piscapos,  were  being
introduced,  and  Patty  just  knew   Richard  Dawson  would  find  something  
funny  to  say  about
that   name,  and  besides,  she  was  having  the  devil's  own  time  finding 
 a  black  button,  although
she  knew  there  were  loads  of  them  in  the  button  box.  They  hid,  of  
course; that was the only
explanation . . .

So  she  let  him  go  and  did  not  think  of  him  again  until  the  
credit-crawl, when she looked up
and saw his empty chair. She had heard the water running into the tub upstairs 
and had heard
it  stop  five  or  ten  minutes  later . . . but now she realized she had 
never heard the fridge door
open  and  close,  and  that  meant  he  was  up  there  without  a  can  of  
beer.  Someone  had  called
him  up  and  dropped  a  big  fat  problem  in  his  lap,  and  had  she  
offered  him  a  single  word  of
commiseration?  No.  Tried  to  draw  him  out  a  little  about  it?  No.  
Even  noticed  that  something
was  wrong?  For  the  third  time,  no.  All  because  of  that  stupid  TV  
show  —  she couldn't even
really blame the buttons; they were only an excuse.

Okay  —  she'd take him up a  can of Dixie, and sit beside him on the edge of 
the tub, scrub
his  back,  play  Geisha  and  wash  his  hair  if  he  wanted  her  to,  and  
find  out  just  what  the
problem was . . . or who it was.

She  got  a  can  of  beer  out  of  the  fridge  and  went  upstairs  with  
it.  The  first  real  disquiet
stirred  in  her  when  she  saw  that  the  bathroom  door  was  shut.  Not  
just  part-way closed but
shut  tight.  Stanley  never  closed  the  door  when  he  was  taking  a  
bath.  It  was  something  of  a
joke  between  them  —  the  closed  door  meant  he  was  doing  something  
his  mother  had  taught
him,  the  open  door  meant  he  would  not  be  averse  to  doing  something  
the  teaching  of  which
his mother had quite properly left to others.


Patty  tapped  on  the  door  with  her  nails,  suddenly  aware,  too  aware,  
of  the  reptilian clicking
sound  they  made  on  the  wood.  And  surely  tapping  on  the  bathroom  
door,  knocking  like  a
guest,  was  something  she  had  never  done  before  in  her  married  life  
—  not  here,  not  on  any
other door in the house.

The  disquiet  suddenly  grew  strong  in  her,  and  she  thought  of  Carson  
Lake,  where  she  had
gone  swimming  often  as  a  girl.  By  the  first  of  August  the  lake  was 
 as  warm  as  a  tub  .  .  .  but
then  you'd  hit  a  cold  pocket  that  would  shiver you  with  surprise  and 
 delight.  One  minute  you
were   warm;   the   next  moment  it  felt  as  if  the  temperature  had  
plummeted  twenty  degrees
below  your  hips.  Minus  the  delight,  that  was  how  she  felt  now  —  as 
 if  she  had  just  struck  a
cold  pocket.  Only  this  cold  pocket  was  not  below  her  hips,  chilling  
her  long  teenager's  legs  in
the black depths of Carson Lake.

This one was around her heart.
'Stanley? Stan?'

This  time  she  did  more  than  tap  with  her  nails.  She  rapped  on  the  
door.  When  there  was

still no answer, she hammered on it.

'Stanley?'

Her  heart.  Her  heart  wasn't  in  her  chest  anymore.  It  was  beating  in 
 her  throat,  making  it
hard to breathe.

'Stanley!'

In  the  silence  following  her  shout  (and  just  the  sound  of  herself  
shouting  up  here,  less  than
thirty  feet  from  the  place  where  she  laid  her  head  down  and  went  
to  sleep  each  night,
frightened  her  even  more),  she  heard  a  sound  which  brought  panic  up  
from  the  belowstairs
part  of  her  mind  like  an  unwelcome  guest.  Such  a  small  sound,  
really.  It  was  only  the  sound
of dripping water. Plink . . . pause. Plink . . . pause. Plink . . .  pause. 
Plink . . .

She  could  see  the  drops  forming  on  the  snout  of  the  faucet,  growing 
 heavy  and  fat  there,
growing pregnant there, and then falling off: plink.

Just  that  sound.  No  other.  And  she  was  suddenly,  terribly  sure  that 
it had been Stanley, not
her father, who had been stricken with a heart attack tonight.

With  a  moan,  she  gripped  the  cut-glass doorknob and turned it. Yet still 
the door would not

move:  it  was  locked.  And  suddenly  three  nevers  occurred  to  Patty  
Uris in rapid succession:
Stanley  never  took  a  bath  in  the  early  evening,  Stanley  never  closed 
 the  door  unless  he  was
using the toilet, and Stanley had never locked the door against her at all.

Was it possible, she wondered crazily, to prepare for a heart attack?

Patty  ran  her  tongue  over  her  lips  —  it  produced  a  sound  in  her  
head  like  fine  sandpaper
sliding  along  a  board  —  and  called  his  name  again.  There  was  still  
no  answer  except  the
steady,  deliberate  drip  of  the  faucet.  She  looked  down  and  saw  she  
still held the can of Dixie
beer  in  one  hand.  She  gazed  at  it  stupidly,  her  heart  running  like  
a  rabbit  in  her  throat;  she
gazed  at  it  as  if  she  had  never  seen  a  can  of  beer  in  her  whole  
life  before  this  minute.  And
indeed  it  seemed  she  never  had,  or  at  least never one like this, 
because when she blinked her
eyes  it turned into a telephone handset, as black and as threatening as a 
snake.

'May  I  help  you,  ma'am?  Do  you  have  a  problem?'  the  snake  spat  at  
her.  Patty  slammed  it
down  in  its  cradle  and  stepped  away,  rubbing  the  hand  which  had  
held  it.  She  looked  around
and saw she was back in the TV room and understood that the panic which had 
come into the
front  of  her  mind  like  a  prowler  walking  quietly  up  a  flight  of  
stairs  had  had  its  way  with  her.
Now  she  could  remember  dropping  the  beer  can  outside  the  bathroom  
door  and  pelting
headlong back down the stairs, thinking vaguely:  This  is  all  a  mistake  of 
some kind and we'll
laugh about it later. He filled up the tub and then remembered he didn't have 
cigarettes and
went out to get them before he took his clothes off —


Yes. Only he had already locked the bathroom door from the inside and because 
it was too
much  of  a  bother  to  unlock  it  again  he  had  simply  opened  the  
window  over  the  tub  and  gone
down the side of the house like a fly crawling down a wall. Sure, of course, 
sure —

Panic  was  rising  in  her  mind  again —  it  was  like  bitter  black  
coffee  threatening to overflow
the  rim  of  a  cup.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  fought  against  it.  She  
stood  there,  perfectly still, a
pale statue with a pulse beating in its throat.

Now   she   could   remember   running   back   down   here,   feet   
stuttering   on   the   stair -levels,
running for the phone, oh yes, oh sure, but who had she meant to call?

Crazily, she thought: I would call the turtle, but the turtle couldn't help us.

It didn't matter anyway. She had gotten as far as zero and she must have said 
something not
quite  standard,  because  the  operator  had  asked  if  she  had  a  problem. 
 She  had  one,  all  right,
but  how  did  you  tell  that  faceless  voice  that  Stanley  had  locked  
himself  in  the  bathroom  and
didn't  answer  her,  that  the  steady  sound  of  the  water  dripping  into  
the  tub  was  killing  her
heart? Someone had to help her. Someone —

She  put  the  back  of  her  hand  into  her  mouth  and  deliberately  bit  
down  on  it.  She  tried  to
think, tried to force herself to think.

The spare keys. The spare keys in the kitchen cupboard.

She  got  going,  and  one  slippered  foot  kicked  the  bag  of  buttons  
resting  beside  her  chair.
Some  of  the  buttons  spilled  out,  glittering  like  glazed  eyes  in  the  
lamplight.  She  saw  at  least
half a dozen black ones.

Mounted  inside  the  door  of  the  cupboard  over  the  double-basin  sink  
was  a  large  varnished
board  in  the  shape  of  a  key  —  one  of  Stan's  clients  had  made it in 
his workshop and given it
to  him  two  Christmases  ago.  The  key-board  was  studded  with  small  
hooks,  and  swinging  on
these  were  all  the  keys  the  house  took,  two  duplicates  of  each  to  
a  hook.  Beneath  each  hook
was  a  strip  of  Mystik  tape,  each  strip  lettered  in  Stan's  small,  
neat  printing:  GARAGE,  ATTIC,
D'STAIRS  BATH,  UPSTAIRS  BATH,  FRONT  DOOR,  BACK  DOOR.  Off to one side 
were ignition-key
dupes labelled M-B and VOLVO.

Patty  snatched  the  key  marked  UPSTAIRS  BATH,  began  to  run  for  the  
stairs,  and   then made
herself  walk.  Running  made  the  panic  want  to  come  back,  and  the  
panic  was  too  close  to  the
surface  as  it  was.  Also,  if  she  just  walked,  maybe  nothing  would  be 
 wrong.  Or,  if  there  was
something  wrong,  God  could  look  down,  see  she  was  just  walking,  and 
think:  Oh, good  — I
pulled  a hell of a boner, but I've got time to take it all back.

Walking as sedately as a woman on her way to a Ladies' Book Circle meeting, she 
went up
the stairs and down to the closed bathroom door.

'Stanley?'  she  called,  trying  the  door  again  at  the  same  time,  
suddenly  more  afraid  than
ever, not wanting to use the key because having to use the key was somehow too 
final. If God
hadn't  taken  it  back  by  the  time  she  used  the  key,  then  He  never  
would.  The  age  of  miracles,
after all, was past.

But the door was still locked; the deliberate  plink . . .  pause of dripping 
water was her only
answer.

Her  hand  was  shaking,  and  the  key  chattered  all  the  way  around  the  
plate  before  finding  its
way  into  the  keyhole  and  socking  itself home. She turned it and heard the 
lock snap back. She

fumbled  for  the  cut-glass  knob.  It  tried  to  slide  through  her  hand  
again  —  not  because  the
door  was  locked  this  tune  but  because  her  palm  was  wet  with  sweat.  
She  firmed  her  grip  and
made it turn. She pushed the door open.

'Stanley? Stanley? St — '

She  looked  at  the  tub  with  its  blue  shower  curtain  bunched  at  the  
far  end  of  the  stainless
steel  rod  and  forgot  how  to  finish  her  husband's  name.  She  simply  
stared  at  the  tub,  her  face
as  solemn  as  the  face  of  a  child  on  her  first  day  at  school.  In  
a  moment  she  would  begin  to
scream,  and  Anita  MacKenzie  next  door  would  hear  her,  and  it  would  
be  Anita  MacKenzie


who  would  call  the  police,  convinced  that  someone  had  broken  into  
the  Uris  house  and  that
people were being killed over there.

But  for  now,  this  one  moment,  Patty  Uris  simply  stood  silent  with  
her  hands  «  clasped  in
front of her against her dark cotton skirt, her face solemn, her eyes huge. And 
now the look of

almost  holy  solemnity  began  ot   transform  itself  into  something  else.  
The  huge  eyes  began  to

bulge.  Her  mouth  pulled  back  into  a  dreadful  grin  of  horror.  She  
wanted  to  scream  and
couldn't. The screams were too big to come out.

The bathroom was lit by fluorescent tubes. It was very  bright. There were no 
shadows. You
could  see  everything,  whether  you  wanted  to  or  not.  The  water  in  
the  tub  was  bright  pink.
Stanley lay with his back propped against the rear of the tub. His head had 
rolled so far back
on  his  neck  that  strands  of  his  short  black  hair  brushed  the  skin  
between  his  shoulder-blades.
If  his  staring  eyes  had  still  been  capable  of  seeing,  she  would  
have  looked  upside  down  to
him.  His  mouth  hung  open  like  a  sprung  door.  His  expression  was  one 
 of  abysmal,  frozen
horror.  A  package  of Gillette Platinum Plus razor blades lay on the rim of 
the tub. He had slit
his  inner  forearms  open  from  wrist  to  the  crook  of  the  elbow,  and  
then  had  crossed  each  of
these cuts just below the Bracelets of Fortune, making a pair of bloody capital 
T's. The gashes
glared  red-purple  in  the  harsh  white  light.  She  thought  the  exposed  
tendons  and  ligaments
looked like cuts of cheap beef.

A  drop  of  water  gathered  at  the  lip  of  the  shiny  chromium  faucet.  
It  grew  fat.  Grew

pregnant, you might say. It sparkled. It dropped. Plink.

He  had  dipped  his  right  forefinger  in  his  own  blood  and  had  written 
 a  single  word  on  the
blue   tiles   above   the   tub,   written   it   in   two   huge,   
staggering   letters.   A   zig-zagging   bloody
fingermark  fell  away  from  the  second  letter  of  this  word  —  his  
finger  had  made  that  mark,
she  saw,  as  his  hand  fell  into  the  tub,  where  it  now  floated.  She  
thought  Stanley  must  have
made  that  mark  —  his final impression on the world  — as he lost 
consciousness. It seemed to
cry out at her:

Another drop fell into the tub.

Plink.

That    did    it.    Patty    Uris    at    last    found    her    voice.    
Staring    into    her    husband's
dead and sparkling eyes, she began to scream.

2

Richard Tozier Takes a Powder

Rich felt like he was doing pretty good until the vomiting started.

He     had     listened     to     everything     Mike     Hanlon     told     
him,     said     all     the     right
things,    answered    Mike's    questions,    even    asked    a    few    of  
  his    own.    He    was


vaguely   aware   that   he   was   doing   one   of   his   Voices   —   not  
a  strange  and  outrageous
one,     like     those     he     sometimes     did     on     the     radio   
  (Kinky     Briefcase,     Sexual
Accountant    was    his    own    personal    favorite,    at    least    for  
  the    tune    being,    and
positive    listener    response    on    Kinky    was    almost    as    high  
  as    for    his    listeners'
all-time      favorite,      Colonel      Buford      Kissdrivel),      but     
 a      warm,      rich,      confident
Voice.    An    I'm-All-Right   Voice.   It   sounded   great,   but   it   was 
  a   lie.   Just   like   all
the other Voices were lies.

'How much do you remember, Rich?' Mike asked him.
'Very little,' Rich said, and then paused. 'Enough, I suppose.'
'Will you come?'

'I'll come,' Rich said, and hung up.

He   sat   in   his   study   for   a   moment,   leaning   back   in   the   
chair   behind   his   desk,
looking    out    at    the    Pacific    Ocean.    A    couple    of    kids   
 were    down    on    the    left,
horsing    around    on    their    surfboards,    not    really    riding    
them.    There    wasn't    much
surf to ride.

The  clock  on  the  desk  —  an  expensive  LED  quartz  that  had  been  a  
gift  from  a  record
company rep  —  said  that  it  was  5:09   P.M.  on May 28th, 1985. It would, 
of course, be three
hours  later  where  Mike  was  calling  from.  Dark  already.  He  felt  a  
prickle  of  gooseflesh  at  that
and  he  began  to  move,  to  do  things.  First,  of  course,  he  put  on  a 
 record  —  not hunting, just
grabbing  blindly  among  the  thousands  racked  on  the  shelves.  Rock  and  
roll  was  almost  as
much   a  part  of  his  life  as  the  Voices,  and  it  was  hard  for  him  
to  do  anything  without  music
playing  —  and  the  louder  the  better.  The  record  he  grabbed  turned  
out  to  be  a  Motown
retrospective.  Marvin  Gaye,  one  of  the  newer  members  of  what  Rich 
sometimes  called  The
All-Dead Band, came on singing 'I Heard It Through the Grapevine.'

'Oooh-hoo, I bet your wond'rin how I knew . . . '

'Not  bad,'  Rich  said.  He  even  smiled  a  little.  This  was  bad,  and  
it  had  admittedly  knocked
him for a loop, but he felt that he was going to be able to handle it. No 
sweat.

He  began  getting  ready  to  go  back  home.  And  at  some  point  during  
the  next  hour  it
occurred to him that it was as if he had died and had yet been allowed to make 
all of his own
final  business  dispositions  .  .  . not  to  mention  his  own  funeral  
arrangements.  And  he  felt  as  if
he  was  doing  pretty  good.  He  tried  the  travel  agent  he  used,  
thinking  she  would  probably  be
on  the  freeway  and  headed  home  by  now  but  taking  a  shot  on  the  
off-chance. For a wonder,
he caught her in. He told her what he needed and she asked him for fifteen 
minutes.

'I owe you one, Carol,' he said. They had progressed from Mr Tozier and Ms 
Feeny to Rich
and  Carol  over  the  last  three  years  —  pretty  chummy,  considering  
they  had  never  met  face  to
face.

'All right, pay off,' she said. 'Can you do Kinky Briefcase for me?'

Without  even  pausing  —  if  you  had  to  pause  to  find  your  Voice,  
there  was  usually  no
Voice  there  to  be  found  —  Rich said: 'Kinky Briefcase, Sexual Accountant, 
here  —  I had  a
fellow  come  in  the  other  day  who  wanted  to  know  what  the  worst  
thing  was  about  getting
AIDS.'  His  voice  had  dropped  slightly;  at  the  same  time  its  rhythm  
had  speeded  up  and
become  jaunty  —  it  was  clearly  an  American  voice  and  yet  it  somehow 
 conjured  up  images
of  a  wealthy  British  colonial  chappie  who  was  as  charming,  in  his  
muddled  way,  as  he  was
addled.  Rich  hadn't  the  slightest  idea  who  Kinky  Briefcase  really  
was,  but  he  was  sure  he
always  wore  white  suits,  read  Esquire,  and  drank  things  which  came  
in  tall  glasses  and
smelled  like  coconut-scented  shampoo.  'I  told  him  right  away  —  trying 
 to  explain  to  your
mother  how  you  picked  it  up  from  a  Haitian  girl.  Until  next  time,  
this  is  Kinky  Briefcase,
Sexual Accountant, saying "You need my card if you can't get hard."'


Carol  Feeny  screamed  with  laughter.  'That's  perfect!  Perfect.  My 
boyfriend says he doesn't
believe  you  can  just  do  those  voices,  he  says  it's  got  to  be  a  
voice-filter gadget or something

— '

'Just talent, my dear,' Rich said. Kinky Briefcase was gone. W. C. Fields, top 
hat, red nose,
golf-bags  and  all,  was  here.  'I'm  so  stuffed  with  talent  I  have  to  
plug  up  all  my  bodily  orifices
to keep it from just running out like . . . well, just running out.'

She went off into another screamy gale  of laughter, and Rich closed his eyes. 
He could feel
the beginnings of a headache.

'Be  a  dear  and  see  what  you  can  do,  would  you?'  he  asked,  still  
being  W.  C.  Fields,  and

hung up on her laughter.

Now he had to go back to being himself, and that was hard  — it got harder to 
do that every
year. It was easier to be brave when you were someone else.

He  was  trying  to  pick  out  a  pair  of  good  loafers  and  had  about  
decided  to  stick  with
sneakers  when  the  phone  rang  again.  It  was  Carol  Feeny,  back  in  
record  time.  He  felt  an
instant  urge  to  fall  into  the  Buford  Kissdrivel  Voice  and  fought  it  
off.  She  had  been  able  to
get  him  a  first-class  seat  on  the  American  Airlines  red-eye  nonstop  
from  LAX  to  Boston.  He
would  leave  LA  at  9:03  P.M.  and  arrive  at  Logan  about five o'clock 
tomorrow morning. Delta
would  fly  him  out  of  Boston  at  7:30  A.M.  and  into  Bangor,  Maine,  
at  8:20.  She  had  gotten
him  a  full-sized  sedan  from  Avis,  and  it  was  only  twenty-six  miles  
from  the  Avis  counter  at
Bangor International Airport to the Derry town line.

Only  twenty-six  miles?  Rich thought.   Is  that  all,  Carol?  Well,  maybe  
it  is  — in  miles,
anyway. But you don't have the slightest idea how far it really is to Derry, 
and I don't, either.
But oh God, oh dear God, I am going to find out.

'I  didn't  try  for  a  room  because  you  didn't  tell  me  how  long  you'd 
 be  there,'  she  said.  'Do
you — '

'No  —  let  me  take  care  of  that,'  Rich  said,  and  then  Buford  
Kissdrivel  took  over.  'You've

been a peach, my deah. A Jawja peach, a cawse.'

He  hung  up  gently  on  her  —  always leave em laughing   —  and  then  
dialed  207-555-1212
for  State  of  Maine  Directory  Assistance.  He  wanted  a  number  for  the  
Derry  Town  House.
God,  there  was  a  name  from  the  past.  He  hadn't  thought  of  the  
Derry  Town  House  in  —
what?  —  ten  years?  twenty?  twenty-five  years,  even?  Crazy  as  it  
seemed,  he  guessed  it   had
been  at  least  twenty-five  years,  and  if  Mike  hadn't  called,  he  
supposed  he  might  never  have
thought  of  it  again  in  his  life.  And  yet  there  had  been  a  time  in 
 his  life  when  he had walked
past  that  great  red  brick  pile  every  day — and on more than one occasion 
he had  run  past it,
with  Henry  Bowers  and  Belch  Huggins  and  that  other  big  boy,  Victor  
Somebody-or-Other, in
hot  pursuit,  all  of  them  yelling  little  pleasantries  like   We're  
gonna  getcha,  fuckface!  Gonna
getcha, you little smartass! Gonna getcha, you foureyed faggot! Had they ever 
gotten him?

Before Rich could remember, an operator was asking him what city, please.
'In Derry, operator — '

Derry!  God!  Even  the  word felt  strange  and  forgotten  in  his  mouth;  
saying  it  was  like
kissing an antique.

' — do you have a number for the Derry Town House?'

'One moment, sir.'

No way. It'll be gone. Razed in an urban-renewal program. Changed into an Elks' 
Hall or
a Bowl-a-Drome or an Electric Dreamscape Video Arcade. Or maybe burned down one 
night
when the odds finally ran out on some drunk shoe salesman smoking in bed. All 
gone, Richie

— just like the glasses Henry Bowers always used to rag you about. What's that 
Springsteen
song say? Glory days . . . gone in the wink of a young girl's eye. What young 
girl? Why, Bev,
of course. Bev . . .


Changed  the  Town  House  might  be,  but  gone  it  apparently  was  not,  
because  a  blank,
robotic voice now came on the line and said: 'The . . . number . . . is . . . 9 
. . . 4 . . . 1 . . . 8 . . .

2 . . . 8 . . . 2. Repeat: . . . the . . . number . . . is . . . '

But  Rich  had  gotten  it  the  first  time.  It  was  a  pleasure  to  hang  
up  on  that droning voice  —
it   was   too   easy   to   imagine   some   great   globular   Directory   
Assistance   monster   buried
somewhere  in  the  earth,  sweating  rivets  and  holding  thousands  of  
telephones  in  thousands  of
jointed  chromium  tentacles  —  the  Ma  Bell  version  of  Spidey's  nemesis, 
 Dr  Octopus.  Each
year  the  world  Rich  lived  in  felt  more  and  more  like  a  huge  
electronic  haunted  house  in
which digital ghosts and frightened human beings lived in uneasy coexistence.

Still standing. To paraphrase Paul Simon, still standing after all these years.

He  dialed  the  hotel  he  had  last  seen  through  the  horn-rimmed  
spectacles  of  his  childhood.
Dialing  that  number,  1-207-941-8282,  was  fatally  easy.  He  held  the  
telephone  to  his  ear,
looking  out  his  study's  wide  picture  window.  The  surfers  were  gone;  
a  couple  were  walking
slowly  up  the beach, hand in hand, where they had been. The couple could have 
been a poster
on  the  wall  of  the  travel  agency  where  Carol  Feeny  worked,  that  was 
 how  perfect  they  were.
Except, that was, for the fact they were both wearing glasses.

Gonna getcha, fuckface! Gonna break your glasses!

Criss, his mind sent up abruptly. His last name was Criss. Victor Criss.

Oh  Christ,  that  was  nothing  he  wanted  to  know,  not  at  this  late  
date,  but  it  didn't  seem  to
matter  in  the  slightest.  Something  was  happening  down  there  in  the  
vaults,  down  there  where
Rich Tozier kept his own personal collection of Golden Oldies. Doors were 
opening.

Only  they're  not  records  down  there,  are  they?  Down  there  you're  not 
 Rich  'Records'

Tozier, hot-shot KLAD deejay and the Man of a Thousand Voices, are you? And 
those things
that are opening . . . they aren't exactly doors, are they?

He tried to shake these thoughts off.

Thing to remember is that I'm okay. I'm okay, you're okay, Rich Tozier's okay. 
Could use a
cigarette, is all.

He had quit four years ago but he could use one now, all right.

They're not records but dead bodies. You buried them deep but now there's some 
kind of
crazy earthquake going on and the ground is spitting them up to the surface. 
You're not Rich
'Records'  Tozier  down  there;  down  there  you're  just  Richie  'Four-Eyes' 
 Tozier  and  you're
with your buddies and you're so scared it feels like your balls are turning 
into Welch's grape
jelly. Those aren't doors, and they're not opening. Those are crypts, Richie. 
They're cracking
open and the vampires you thought were dead are all flying out again.

A cigarette, just one. Even a Carlton would do, for Christ's sweet sake.

Gonna getcha, four-eyes! Gonna make you EAT that fuckin bookbag!

Town  House,'  a  male  voice  with  a  Yankee  tang  said;  it  had  travelled 
 all  the  way  across
New England, the Midwest, and under the casinos of Las Vegas to reach his ear.

Rich  asked  the  voice  if  he  could  reserve  a  suite  of  rooms  at  the  
Town  House,  beginning

tomorrow. The voice told him he could, and then asked him for how long.
'I can't say. I've got — ' He paused briefly, minutely.

What  did  he  have,  exactly?  In  his  mind's  eye  he  saw  a  boy  with  a  
tartan  bookbag  running

from  the  tough  guys;  he  saw  a  boy  who  wore   glasses,  a  thin  boy 
with a pale face that had
somehow  seemed  to  scream  Hit  me!  Go  on  and  hit  me!  in  some  
mysterious  way  to  every
passing bully.  Here's  my  lips!  Mash  them  back  against  my  teeth!  
Here's  my  nose!  Bloody  it
for  sure  and  break  it  if  you  can!  Box  an  ear  so  it  swells  up  
like  a  cauliflower!  Split  an
eyebrow!  Here's  my  chin,  go  for  the  knockout  button!  Here  are  my  
eyes,  so  blue  and  so
magnified behind these hateful, hateful glasses, these horn-rimmed specs one 
bow of which is
held   on with adhesive tape. Break the specs! Drive a shard of glass into one 
of these eyes and
close it forever! What the hell!


He closed his eyes and said: 'I've got business in Derry, you see. I don't know 
how long the
transaction will take. How about three days, with an option to renew?'

'An  option  to  renew?'  the  desk-clerk  asked  doubtfully,  and  Rich  
waited  patiently  for  the
fellow to work it over in his mind. 'Oh, I get you! That's very good!'

'Thank you, and I . . . ah . . . hope you can vote for us in Novembah,'  John 
F. Kennedy said.
'Jackie wants to . . . ah . . . do ovuh the ah . . . Oval Office, and I've got 
a job all lined up for
my . . . ah . . . brothah Bobby.'

'Mr Tozier?'
'Yes.'

'Okay . . . somebody else got on the line there for a few seconds.'

Just  an  old  pol  from  the  DOP,  Rich thought.  That's Dead Old Party, in 
case you should
wonder.  Don't  worry  about  it.  A  shudder  worked  through  him,  and  he  
told  himself  again,
almost desperately: You're okay, Rich.

'I  heard  it,  too,'  Rich  said.  'Must  have  been  a  line  cross-over.  
How  we  looking  on  that
room?'

'Oh,  there's  no  problem  with  that,'  the  clerk  said.  'We  do  business  
here  in  Derry,  but  it
really never booms.'

'Is that so?'

'Oh,  ayuh,'  the  clerk  agreed,  and  Rich  shuddered  again.  He  had  
forgotten  that,  too  — that
simple northern New England-ism for yes. Oh, ayuh.

Gonna   getcha,   creep!  the  ghostly  voice  of  Henry  Bowers  screamed,  
and  he  felt  more
crypts   cracking   open   inside   of   him;   the   stench   he   smelled   
was   not   decayed   bodies   but

decayed memories, and that was somehow worse.

He  gave  the  Town  House  clerk  his  American  Express  number  and  hung  
up.  Then  he  called
Steve Covall, the KLAD program director.

'What's  up,  Rich?'  Steve  asked.  The  last  Arbitron  ratings  had  shown  
KLAD  at  the top of

the  cannibalistic  Los  Angeles  FM-rock  market,  and  ever  since  then  
Steve  had  been  in  an
excellent mood — thank God for small favors.

'Well, you might be sorry you asked,' he told Steve. 'I'm taking a powder.'

'Taking — ' He could hear the frown in Steve's voice. 'I don't think I get you, 
Rich.'
'I have to put on my boogie shoes. I'm going away.'

'What  do  you  mean,  going  away?  According  to  the  log  I  have  right  
here  in  front  of  me,
you're  on  the  air  tomorrow  from  two  in  the  afternoon  until  six  
P-M., just like always. In fact,
you're  interviewing  Clarence  demons  in  the  studio  at  four.  You  know  
Clarence  Clemons,
Rich? As in "Come on and blow, Big Man?"'

'Clemons can talk to Mike O'Hara as well as he can to me.'

'Clarence   doesn't  want  to  talk  to  Mike,  Rich.  Clarence  doesn't  want  
to  talk  to  Bobby
Russell.  He  doesn't  want  to  talk  to  me.  Clarence  is  a  big  fan  of  
Buford  Kissdrivel  and  Wyatt
the Homicidal Bag-Boy.  He  wants  to  talk  to  you,  my friend. And I have no 
interest in having
a  pis sed-off  two-hundred-and-fifty-pound  saxophone  player  who  was  once  
almost  drafted  by
a pro football team running amok in my studio.'

'I  don't  think  he  has  a  history  of  running  amok,'  Rich  said.  'I  
mean,  we're  talking  Clarence

Clemons here, not Keith Moon.'

There was silence on the line. Rich waited patiently.

'You're  not  serious,  are  you?'  Steve  finally  asked.  He  sounded  
plaintive:  'I  mean,  unless
your  mother  just  died  or  you've  got  to  have  a  brain  tumor  out  or  
something,  this  is  called
crapping out.'

'I have to go, Steve.'

'Is your mother sick? Did she God-forbid die?'
'She died ten years ago.'


'Have you got a brain tumor?'
'Not even a rectal polyp.'
'This is not funny, Rich.'

'No.'

'You're being a fucking busher, and I don't like it.'
'I don't like it either, but I have to go.'

'Where? Why? What is this? Talk to me, Rich!'

'Someone called me. Someone I used to know a long time ago. In another place. 
Back then
something  happened.  I  made  a  promise.  We  all  promised  that  we  would  
go  back  if  the
something started happening again. And I guess it has.'

'What something are we talking about, Rich?'

'I'd just as soon not say.' Also, you'll think I'm crazy if I tell you the 
truth: I don't remember.

'When did you make this famous promise?'
'A long time ago. In the summer of 1958.'

There  was  another  long  pause,  and  he  knew  Steve  Covall  was  trying  
to  decide  if  Rich
'Records'  Tozier,  aka  Buford  Kissdrivel,  aka  Wyatt  the  Homicidal  
Bag-Boy,  etc.,  etc., was
having him on or was having some kind of mental breakdown.

'You would have been just a kid,' Steve said flatly.
'Eleven. Going on twelve.'

Another long pause. Rich waited patiently.

'All  right,'  Steve  said.  'I'll  shift  the  rotation  —  put Mike in for 
you. I can call Chuck Foster
to  pull  a  few  shifts,  I  guess,  if  I  can  find  what  Chinese  
restaurant  he's  currently  holed  up  in.
I'll  do  it  because  we  go  back  a  long  way  together.  But  I'm  never  
going  to  forget  you  bushed
out on me, Rich.'

'Oh, get down off it,' Rich said, but the headache was getting worse. He knew 
what he was
doing; did Steve really think he didn't? 'I need a few days off, is all. You're 
acting like I took
a shit on our FCC charter.'

'A  few  days  off  for  what?  The  reunion  of  your  Cub  Scout  pack  in  
Shithouse  Falls,  North
Dakota, or Pussyhump City, West Virginia?'

'Actually  I  think  Shithouse  Falls  in  Arkansas,  bo,'  Buford  Kissdrivel  
said  in  his  big  hollow-
barrel Voice, but Steve was not to be diverted.

'Because  you  made  a  promise  when  you  were  eleven?  Kids  don't  make  
serious  promises
when  they're  eleven,  for  Christ's  sake!  And  it's  not  even  that,  
Rich,  and  you  know  it.  This  is
not  an  insurance  company;  this  is  not  a  law  office.  This  is  
show-business,  be  it  ever  so
humble,  and  you  fucking  well  know  it.  If  you  had  given  me  a  week's 
 notice,  I  wouldn't  be
holding  this  phone  in  one  hand  and  a  bottle  of  Mylanta  in  the  
other.  You  are  putting  my  balls
to    the wall, and you know it, so don't you insult my intelligence!'

Steve  was  nearly  screaming  now,  and  Rich  closed  his  eyes.  I'm  never  
going  to  forget  it,
Steve  had  said,  and  Rich  supposed  he  never  would.  But  Steve  had  
also  said  kids  didn't  make
serious  promises  when  they  were  eleven,  and  that  wasn't  true  at  all. 
 Rich  couldn't remember
what  the  promise  had  been  —  wasn't  sure  he  wanted  to remember  — but 
it had been plenty
serious.

'Steve, I have to.'

'Yeah. And I told you I could handle it. So go ahead. Go ahead, you busher.'
'Steve, this is rid — '

But Steve  had already hung up. Rich put the phone down. He had barely started 
away from

it  when  it  began  to  ring  again,  and  he  knew  without  picking  it  up  
that  it  was  Steve  again,
madder  than  ever.  Talking  to  him  at  this  point  would  do  no  good;  
things  would  just  get  uglier.
He slid the switch on the side of the phone to the right, cutting it off in 
mid-ring.


He  went  upstairs,  pulled  two  suitcases  out  of  the  closet,  and  filled 
 them  with  a  barely
glanced —  at conglomeration of clothes  —  jeans,  shins,  underwear,  socks. 
It would not occur
to  him  until  later  that  he  had  taken  nothing  but  kid-clothes.  He  
carried  the  suitcases  back
downstairs.

On  the  den  wall  was  a  black-and-white Ansel Adams photograph of Big Sur. 
Rich swung it
back   on   hidden   hinges,   exposing   a   barrel  safe.  He  opened  it,  
pawed  his  way  past  the
paperwork  —  the  house  here,  poised  cozily  between  the  fault-line  and  
the  brush-fire zone,
twenty  acres  of  timberland  in  Idaho,  a  bunch  of  stocks.  He  had  
bought  the  stocks  seemingly
at  random  —  when  his  broker  saw Rich coming, he immediately clutched his 
head  — but the
stocks  had  all  risen  steadily  over  the  years.  He  was  sometimes  
surprised  by  the  thought  that
he was almost  —  not quite, but almost  —  a rich man. All courtesy of 
rock-and-roll music . . .
and the Voices, of course.

House,  acres,  stocks,  insurance  policy,  even  a  copy  of  his  last  will 
 and  testament.  The
strings that bind you tight to the map of your life, he thought.

There  was  a  sudden  wild  impulse  to  whip  out  his  Zippo  and  light  it 
 up,  the  whole whore's
combine    of    wherefores    and    know-ye-all-men-by-these-present's    and 
   the-bearer-of-this-
certificate-is-entitled's.  And  he  could  do  it,  too.  The  papers  in  his 
 safe  had  suddenly  ceased  to
signify anything.

The  first  real  terror  struck  him  then,  and  there  was  nothing  at  all 
 supernatural  about  it.  It
was  only  a  realization  of  how  easy  it  was  to  trash  your  life.  That 
 was  what  was  so  scary.  You
just  dragged  the  fan  up  to  everything  you  had  spent  the  years  
raking  together  and  turned  the
motherfucker on. Easy. Burn it up or blow it away, then just take a powder.

Behind  the  papers,  which  were  only  currency's  second  cousins,  was  the 
 real  stuff.  The
cash. Four thousand dollars in tens, twenties, and fifties.

Taking  it  now,  stuffing  it  into  the  pocket  of  his  jeans,  he  
wondered  if  he  hadn't  somehow
known  what  he  was  doing  when  he  put  the  money  in  here  —  fifty  
bucks  one  month,  a
hundred  and  twenty  the  next,  maybe  only  ten  the  month  after  that.  
Rathole  money.  Taking-a-
powder money.

'Man,  that's  scary,' he said, barely aware he had spoken. He was looking 
blankly out the big

window  at  the  beach.  It  was  deserted  now,  the  surfers  gone,  the  
honeymooners  (if  that  was
what they had been) gone, too.

Ah, yes, doc  — it  all  comes  back  to  me  now.  Remember  Stanley  Uris, 
for instance? Bet
your fur I do . . . . Remember how we used to say that, and think it was so 
cool? Stanley
Urine,  the  big  kids  called  him.  'Hey,  Urine!  Hey,  you  fuckin  
Christ-killer! Where ya goin?
One of ya fag friends gonna give you a bee jay?'

He  slammed  the  safe  door  shut  and  swung  the  picture  back  into  
place.  When  had  he  last
thought  of  Stan  Uris?  Five  years  ago?  Ten?  Twenty?  Rich  and  his  
family  had  moved  away
from  Derry  in  the  spring  of  1960,  and  how  fast  all  of  their  faces  
faded,  his  gang, that pitiful
bunch  of  losers  with  their  little  clubhouse  in  what  had  been  known  
then  as  the  Barrens   —
funny  name  for  an  area  as  lush  with  growth  as  that  place  had  been. 
 Kidding  themselves  that
they  were  jungle  explorers,  or  Seabees  carving  out  a  landing  strip  
on  a  Pacific  atoll  while
they  held  off  the  Japs,  kidding  themselves  that  they  were  
dam-builders,  cowboys,  spacemen
on  a  jungle  world,  you  name  it,  but  whatever  you  name  it,  don't  
let's  forget  what  it  really  was:
it  was  hiding.  Hiding  from  the  big  kids.  Hiding  from  Henry  Bowers  
and  Victor  Criss  and
Belch  Huggins  and  the  rest  of  them.  What  a  bunch  of  losers  they  
had  been  — Stan Uris with
his  big  Jew-boy  nose,  Bill  Denbrough  who  could  say  nothing  but  
'Hi-yo,  Silver!'   without
stuttering  so  badly  that  it  drove  you  almost  dogshit,  Beverly  Marsh  
with  her  bruises  and  her
cigarettes  rolled  into  the  sleeve  of  her  blouse,  Ben  Hanscom  who  had 
 been  so  big  he  looked
like  a  human  version  of  Moby  Dick,  and  Richie  Tozier  with  his  thick 
 glasses  and  his  A
averages  and   his  wise  mouth  and  his  face  which  just  begged  to  be  
pounded  into  new  and


exciting shapes. Was there a word for what they had been? Oh yes. There always 
was. Le mot
juste. In this case le mot juste was wimps.

How it came back, how all of it came back .  . . and now he stood here in his 
den shivering
as  helplessly  as  a  homeless  mutt  caught  in  a  thunderstorm,  shivering  
because  the  guys  he  had
run  with  weren't  all  he  remembered.  There  were  other  things,  things  
he  hadn't  thought  of  in
years, trembling just below the surface.

Bloody things.

A darkness. Some darkness.

The  house  on  Neibolt  Street,  and  Bill  screaming:  You  k-kitted  my  
brother,  you  fuh-fuh-
fucker!

Did he remember? Just enough not to want to remember any more, and you could 
bet your

fur on that.

A  smell  of  garbage,  a  smell  of  shit,  and  a  smell  of  something  
else.  Something  worse  than
either.  It  was  the  stink  of  the  beast,  the  stink  of  It,  down  there 
 in  the  darkness  under  Derry
where the machines thundered on and on. He remembered George —

But  that  was  too  much  and  he  ran  for  the  bathroom,  blundering  into  
his  Eames  chair  on  his
way and almost falling. He made it . . . barely. He slid across the slick tiles 
to the toilet on his
knees  like  some  weird  break-dancer,  gripped  the  edges,  and  vomited  
everything  in  his  guts.
Even  then  it  wouldn't  stop;  suddenly  he  could  see  Georgie  Denbrough  
as  if  he  had  last  seen
him  yesterday,  Georgie  who  had  been  the  start  of  it  all,  Georgie  
who  had  been  murdered  in
the  fall  of  1957.  Georgie  had  died  right after the flood, one of his 
arms had been ripped from
its  socket,  and  Rich  had  blocked  all  of  that  out  of  his  memory.  
But  sometimes  those  things
come back, oh yes indeedy, they come back, sometimes they come back.

The  spasm  passed  and  Rich  groped  blindly  for  the  flush.  Water  
roared.  His  early  supper,
regurgitated in hot chunks, vanished tastefully down the drain.

Into the sewers.

Into the pound and stink and darkness of the sewers.

He  closed  the  lid,  laid  his  forehead  against  it,  and  began to cry. It 
was the first time he had
cried  since  his  mother  died  in  1975.  Without  even  thinking  of  what  
he  was  doing,  he  cupped
his  hands  under  his  eyes,  and  the  contact  lenses  he  wore  slipped  
out  and  lay  glistening  in  his
palms.

Forty  minutes  later,  feeling  husked-out  and  somehow  cleansed,  he  threw 
 his  suitcases  into
the  trunk  of  his  MG  and  backed  it  out  of  the  garage.  The  light  
was  fading.  He  looked  at  his
house  with  the  new  plantings,  he  looked  at  the  beach,  at  the  water, 
 which  had  taken  on  the
cast  of  pale  emeralds  broken  by  a  narrow  track  of  beaten  gold.  And  
a  conviction  stole  over
him that he would never see any of this again, that he was a dead man walking.

'Going  home  now,'  Rich  Tozier  whispered  to  himself.  'Going  home,  God  
help  me,  going
home.'

He  put  the  car  in  gear  and  went,  feeling  again  how  easy  it  had  
been  to  slip  through  an

unsuspected fissure in what he had considered a solid life  —  how easy it was 
to get over onto
the dark side, to sail out of the blue and into the black.

Out of the blue and into the black, yes, that was it. Where anything might be 
waiting.

3

Ben Hanscom Takes a Drink

If,  on  that  night  of  May  28th,  1985,  you  had  wanted  to  find  the  
man  Time  magazine had
called  'perhaps  the  most  promising  young  architect  in  America'  ('Urban 
 Energy  Conservation
and  the  Young  Turks,'   Time,  October  15,1984),  you  would  have  had  to 
 drive  west  out  of


Omaha on Interstate 80 to do it. You'd have taken the Swedholm exit and then 
Highway 81 to
downtown  Swedholm  (of  which  there  isn't  much).  There  you'd  turn  off  
on  Highway  92  at
Bucky's  Hi-Hat  Eat-Em-Up ('Chicken Fried Steak Our Specialty') and once out 
in the country
again  you'd  hang  a  right  on  Highway  63,  which  runs  straight  as  a  
string  through  the  deserted
little  town  of  Gatlin  and  finally  into  Hemingford  Home.  Downtown  
Hemingford  Home  made
downtown   Swedholm   look   like   New   York   City;   the   business   
district   consisted   of   eight
buildings,  five  on  one  side  and  three  on  the  other.  There  was  the  
Kleen  Kut  barber  shop
(propped  in  the  window  a  yellowing  hand-lettered  sign  fully  fifteen  
years  old  read   IF YOUR A
'HIPPY'  GET  YOUR  HAIR  CUT  SOMEWHERE  ELSE),  the  second -run  movie  
house,  the  five-and-
dime.  There  was  a  branch  of  the  Nebraska  Homeowners'  Bank,  a  76  gas 
 station,  a  Rexall
Drug,  and  the  National  Farmstead  &  Hardware  Supply  —  which  was  the  
only  business  in
town which looked halfway prosperous.

And,  near  the  end  of  the  main  drag,  set  off  a  little  way  from  the 
 other  buildings  like  a
pariah  and  resting  on  the  edge  of  the  big  empty,  you  had  your basic 
roadhouse  —  the Red
Wheel.  If  you  had  gotten  that  far,  you  would  have  seen  in  the  
potholed  dirt  parking  lot  an
aging  1968  Cadillac  convertible  with  double  CB  antennas  on  the  back.  
The  vanity  plate  on
the  front  read  simply:  BEN  's  CADDY.   And  inside, walking  toward  the  
bar,  you  would  have
found your man  —  lanky,  sunburned,  dressed  in  a  chambray  shirt,  faded  
jeans,  and  a  pair  of
scuffed  engineer  boots.  There  were  faint  squint-lines  around  the  
corners  of  his  eyes,  but
nowhere  else.  He  looked  perhaps  ten  years  younger  than  his  actual  
age,  which  was  thirty-
eight.

'Hello,  Mr  Hanscom,'  Ricky  Lee  said,  putting  a  paper  napkin  on  the  
bar  as  Ben  sat  down.
Ricky  Lee  sounded  a  trifle  surprised,  and  he  was.  He  had  never  seen 
 Hanscom  in  the  Wheel
on  a  week-night  before.  He  came  in  regularly  every  Friday  night  for  
two  beers,  and  every
Saturday  night  for  four  or  five:  he  always  asked  after  Ricky  Lee's  
three  boys;  he  always  left
the  same  five-dollar  tip  under  his  beer  stein  when  he  took  off.  In  
terms  of  both  professional
conversation  and  personal  regard,  he  was  far  and  away  Ricky  Lee's  
favorite  customer.  The
ten  dollars  a  week  (and  the  fifty  left  under  the  stem  at  each  
Christmas-time over the last five
years)  was  fine  enough,  but  the  man's  company  was  worth  far  more.  
Worthwhile  company
was  always  a  rarity,  but  in  a  honkytonk  like  this,  where  talk  
always  came  cheap,  it  was
scarcer than hen's teeth.

Although  Hanscom's  roots  were  in  New  England  and  he  had  gone  to  
college  in  California,
there  was  more  than  a  touch  of  the  extravagant  Texan  about  him.  
Ricky  Lee  counted  on  Ben
Hanscom's  Friday-Saturday-night  stops,  because  he  had  learned  over  the  
years  that  he   could
count    on  them.  Mr  Hanscom  might  be  building  a  skyscraper  in  New  
York  (where  he  already
had  three  of  the  most  talked-about  buildings  in  the  city),  a  new  
art  gallery  in  Redondo  Beach,
or  a  business  building  in  Salt  Lake  City,  but  come  Friday  night  the 
 door  leading  to  the
parking  lot  would  open  sometime  between  eight  o'clock  and  nine-thirty  
and  in  he  would
stroll, as if he lived no farther than the other side of town and had decided 
to drop in because
there was nothing good on TV. He had his own Learjet and a private landing 
strip on his farm
in Junkins.

Two  years  ago  he  had  been  in  London,  first  designing  and  then  
overseeing  the  construction

of the new BBC communications center  —  a building that was still hotly 
debated pro and con
in  the  British  press  (the  Guardian:  'Perhaps  the  most  beautiful  
building  to  be  constructed  in
London  over  the  last  twenty  years';  the  Mirror:  'Other than the face of 
my mother-in-law after
a pub-crawl,  the  ugliest  thing  I  have  ever  seen').  When  Mr  Hanscom  
took  that  job,  Ricky  Lee
had thought,  Well, I'll see him again sometime. Or maybe he'll just forget all 
about us.  And
indeed,  the  Friday  night  after  Ben  Hanscom  left  for  England  had  come 
 and  gone  with  no  sign
of  him,  although  Ricky  Lee  found  himself  looking  up  quickly  every  
tune  the  door  opened
between  eight  and  nine-thirty.  Well,  I'll  see  him  again  sometime.  
Maybe.   Sometime  turned


out  to  be  the  next  night.  The  door  had  opened  at  quarter  past  nine 
 and  in  he  had  ambled,
wearing  jeans  and  a  GO  'BAMA  tee-shirt  and  his  old  engineer  boots,  
looking  like  he'd  come
from  no  farther  away  than  cross-town.  And  when  Ricky  Lee  cried  
almost  joyfully  'Hey,  Mr
Hanscom!  Christ!  What   are  you  doin  here?,'  Mr  Hanscom  had  looked  
mildly  surprised,  as  if
there  was  nothing  in  the  least  unusual  about  his  being  here.  Nor  
had  that  been  a  one-shot; he
had  showed  up  every  Saturday  during  the  two-year  course  of  his  
active  involvement  in  the
BBC  job.  He  left  London  each  Saturday  morning  at  11:00 A.M .  on  the  
Concorde,  he  told  a
fascinated  Ricky  Lee,  and  arrived  at  Kennedy  in  New  York  at  10:15  
A.M.  —  forty-five

minutes  before  he  left  London,  at  least  by  the  clock  ('God,  ti's  
like  time  travel,  ain't  it?'  an

impressed  Ricky  Lee  had  said).  A  limousine  was  standing  by  to  take  
him  over  to  Teterboro
Airport  in  New  Jersey,  a  trip  which  usually  took  no  more  than  an  
hour  on  Saturday  morning.
He  could  be  in  the  cockpit  of  his  Lear  before noon with no trouble at 
all, and touching down
in  Junkins  by  two-thirty. If you head west fast enough, he told Ricky, the 
day just seems to go
on  forever.  He  would  take  a  two-hour  nap,  spend  an  hour  with  his  
foreman  and  half  an  hour
with  his  secretary. He would eat supper and then come on over to the Red 
Wheel for an hour
and a half or so. He always came in alone, he always sat at the bar, and he 
always left the way
he had come in, although God knew there were plenty of women in this part of 
Nebraska  who
would have been happy to screw the socks off him. Back at the farm he would 
catch six hours
of  sleep  and  then  the  whole  process  would  reverse  itself.  Ricky  had  
never  had  a  customer
who  failed  to  be  impressed  with  this  story.  Maybe  he's  gay,  a  woman 
 had  told  him  once.
Ricky  Lee  glanced  at  her  briefly,  taking  in  the  carefully  styled  
hair,  the  carefully  tailored
clothes  which  undoubtedly  had  designer  labels,  the  diamond  chips  at  
her  ears,  the  look  in  her
eyes,  and  knew  she  was  from  somewhere  back  east,  probably New York, 
out here on a brief
duty  visit  to  a  relative  or  maybe  an  old  school  chum,  and  couldn't  
wait  to  get  out  again.  No,
he had replied. Mr Hanscom ain't  no sissy. She had taken  a  pack of Doral 
cigarettes  from her
purse  and  held  one  between  her  red,  glistening  lips  until  he  lit  it 
 for  her.  How  do  you  know?
she  had  asked,  smiling  a  little.  I  just  do,  he  said.  And  he  did.  
He  thought  of  saying  to  her:  I
think  he's  the  most  God-awful  lonely  man  I  ever  met  in  my  life.  
But  he  wasn't  going  to  say
any  such thing  to  this  New  York  woman  who  was  looking  at  him  like  
he  was  some  new  and
amusing type of life.

Tonight Mr Hanscom looked a little pale, a little distracted.

'Hello, Ricky Lee,' he said, sitting down, and then fell to studying his hands.

Ricky  Lee  knew  he  was  slated  to  spend  the  next  six  or  eight  months 
 in  Colorado  Springs,
overseeing  the  start  of  the  Mountain  States  Cultural  Center,  a  
sprawling  six-building complex
which  would  be  cut  into  the  side  of  a  mountain.  When  it's  done  
people  are  going  to  say  it
looks  like  a  giant-kid left his toy blocks all over a flight of stairs,  Ben 
had told Ricky Lee.
Some  will,  anyway,  and  they'll  be  at  least  half-right. But I think it's 
going to work. It's the
biggest thing I've ever tried and putting it up is going to be scary as hell, 
but I think it's going
to work.

Ricky  Lee  supposed  it  was  possible  that  Mr  Hanscom  had  a  little  
touch  of  stage  fright.
Nothing  surprising  about  that,  and  nothing  wrong  about  it,  either.  
When  you  got  big  enough
to  be  noticed, you  got  big  enough  to  come  gunning  for.  Or  maybe  he  
just  had  a  touch  of  the
bug. There was a hell of a lively one going around.

Ricky Lee got a beer stein from the backbar and reached for the Olympia tap.
'Don't do that, Ricky Lee.'

Ricky Lee  turned back, surprised  —  and when Ben Hanscom looked up from his 
hands, he

was  suddenly  frightened.  Because  Mr  Hanscom  didn't  look  like  he  had  
stage  fright,  or  the
virus  that  was  going  around,  or  anything  like  that.  He  looked  like  
he  had  just  taken  a  terrible
blow and was still trying to understand whatever it was that had hit him.


Someone died. He ain't married but every man's got a fambly, and someone in his 
just bit
the dust. That's what happened, just as sure as shit rolls downhill front a 
privy.

Someone  dropped  a  quarter  into  the  juke-box, and Barbara Mandrell started 
to sing about a
drunk man and a lonely woman.

'You okay, Mr Hanscom?'

Ben  Hanscom  looked  at  Ricky  Lee  out  of  eyes  that  suddenly  looked  
ten  — no, twenty  —
years   older   than   the  rest  of  his  face,  arid  Ricky  Lee  was  
astonished  to  observe  that  Mr
Hanscom's hair was graying. He had never noticed any gray in his hair before.

Hanscom smiled. The smile was ghastly, horrible. It was like watching a corpse 
smile.

'I don't think I am, Ricky Lee. No sir. Not tonight. Not at all.'

Ricky Lee set the stein down and walked back over to where Hanscom sat. The bar 
was as
empty  as  a  Monday-night  bar  far  outside  of  football  season  can  get.  
There  were  fewer  than
twenty  paying  customers  in  the  place.  Annie  was  sitting  by  the  door  
into  the  kitchen,  playing
cribbage with the short-order cook.

'Bad news, Mr Hanscom?'

'Bad news, that's right. Bad news from home. ' He looked at Ricky Lee. He 
looked through
Ricky Lee.

'I'm sorry to hear that, Mr Hanscom.'
'Thank you, Ricky Lee.'

He  fell  silent  and  Ricky  Lee  was  about  to  ask  him  if  there  was  
anything  he  could  do  when
Hanscom said:

'What's your bar whiskey, Ricky Lee?'

'For  everyone  else  in  this  dump  it's  Four  Roses,'   Ricky  Lee  said.  
'But  for  you  I  think  it's
Wild Turkey.'

Hanscom smiled a little at that. 'That's good of you, Ricky Lee. I think you 
better grab that
stein after all. What you do is fill it up with Wild Turkey.'

'Fill  it?'  Ricky  Lee  asked,  frankly  astonished.  'Christ,  I'll  have  to 
 roll  you  out  of  here!'  Or

call an ambulance, he thought.

'Not tonight,' Hanscom said. 'I don't think so.'

Ricky  Lee  looked  carefully  into  Mr  Hanscom's  eyes  to  see  if  he  
could  possibly  be  joking,
and  it  took  less  than a second to see that he wasn't. So he got the stein 
from the backbar and
the  bottle  of  Wild  Turkey  from  one  of  the  shelves  below.  The  neck  
of  the  bottle  chattered
against   the   rim   of   the   stein   as   he   began   to   pour.   He   
watched   the   whiskey   gurgle   out,
fascinated  in  spite  of  himself.  Ricky  Lee  decided  it  was  more  than  
just  a  touch  of  the  Texan
that    Mr  Hanscom  had  in  him:  this  had  to  be  the  biggest  goddamned  
shot  of  whiskey  he  ever
had poured or ever would pour in his life.

Call  an  ambulance,  my  ass.  He  drinks this baby and I'll be calling Parker 
and Waters in
Swedholm for their funeral hack.

Nevertheless  he  brought  it  back  and  set  it  down  in  front  of  
Hanscom;  Ricky  Lee's  father

had  once  told  him  that  if  a  man  was  in  his  right  mind,  you  
brought  him  what he paid for, be it
piss or poison. Ricky Lee didn't know if that was good advice or bad, but he 
knew that if you
tended  bar  for  a  living,  it  went  a  fair  piece  toward  saving  you  
from  being  chomped  into  gator-
bait by your own conscience.

Hanscom  looked  at  the  monster  drink  thoughtfully  for  a  moment  and  
then  asked,  'What  do
I owe you for a shot like that, Ricky Lee?'

Ricky  Lee  shook  his  head  slowly,  eyes  still  on  the  steinful  of  
whiskey,  not  wanting  to  look

up and meet those socketed, staring eyes. 'No,' he said. 'This one is on the 
house.'

Hanscom  smiled  again,  this  time  more  naturally.  'Why,  I  thank  you,  
Ricky Lee.  Now  I  am
going  to  show  you  something  I  learned  about  in  Peru,  in  1978.  I  
was  working  with  a  guy
named  Frank  Billings  —  understudying  with  him,  I  guess  you'd  say.  
Frank  Billings  was  the


best damned architect in the world, I think. He caught a fever and the doctors 
injected about a
billion  different  antibiotics  into  him  and  not  a  single  one  of  them  
touched  it.  He  burned  for
two  weeks  and  then  he  died.  What  I'm  going  to  show  you  I  learned  
from  the  Indians  who
worked  on  the  project.  The  local  popskull  is  pretty  potent.  You  take 
 a  slug  and  you  think  it's
going  down  pretty  mellow,  no  problem,  and  then  all  at  once  it's  
like  someone  lit  a  blowtorch
in  your  mouth  and  aimed  it  down  your  throat.  But  the  Indians  drink  
it  like  Coca-Cola, and I
rarely saw one drunk, and I  never saw one with a hangover. Never had the sack 
to try it their
way myself. But I think I'll give it a go tonight. Bring me some of those lemon 
wedges there.'

Ricky  Lee  brought  him  four  and  laid  them  out  neatly  on  a  fresh  
napkin  next  to  the  stein  of
whiskey. Hanscom picked one of them up, tilted his head back like a man about 
to administer
eyedrops to himself, and then began to squeeze raw lemon-juice into his right 
nostril.

'Holy Jesus!' Ricky Lee cried, horrified.

Hanscom's throat worked. His face flushed . . . and then Ricky Lee saw tears 
running down
the  flat  planes  of  his  face  toward  his  ears.  Now  the  Spinners  were  
on the  juke,  singing  about
the  rubberband-man.  'Oh  Lord,  I  just  don't  know  how  much  of  this  I  
can  stand,'  the  Spinners
sang.

Hanscom  groped  blindly  on  the  bar,  found  another  slice  of  lemon,  and 
 squeezed  the  juice
into his other nostril.

'You're gonna fucking kill yourself,' Ricky Lee whispered.

Hanscom  tossed  both  of  the  wrung-out lemon wedges onto the bar. His eyes 
were fiery red
and  he  was  breathing  in  hitching,  wincing  gasps.  Clear  lemon-juice  
dripped  from  both  of  his
nostrils  and  trickled  down to  the  corners  of  his  mouth.  He  groped  
for  the  stein,  raised  it,  and
drank a third of it. Frozen, Ricky Lee watched his adam's apple go up and down.

Hanscom  set  the  stein  aside,  shuddered  twice,  then  nodded.  He  looked  
at  Ricky  Lee  and
smiled a little. His eyes were no longer red.

'Works  about  like  they  said  it  did.  You  are  so  fucking  concerned  
about  your  nose  that  you

never feel what's going down your throat at all.'
'You're crazy, Mr Hanscom,' Ricky Lee said.

'You  bet  your  fur,'  Mr  Hanscom said. 'You remember that one, Ricky Lee? We 
used to say

that when we were kids "You bet your fur." Did I ever tell you I used to be 
fat?'

'No sir, you never did,' Ricky Lee whispered. He was now convinced that Mr 
Hanscom had
received  some  intelligence so dreadful that the man really  had gone crazy . 
. . or at least taken
temporary leave of his senses.

'I  was  a  regular  butterball.  Never  played  baseball  or  basketball,  
always  got  caught  first
when  we  played  tag,  couldn't  keep  out  of  my  own  way.  I  was  fat,  
all  right.  And  there  were
these  fellows  in  my  home  town  who  used  to  take  after  me  pretty  
regularly.  There  was  a
fellow  named  Reginald  Huggins,  only  everyone  called  him  Belch.  A  kid  
named  Victor  Criss.
A  few  other  guys.  But  the  real  brains  of  the  combination  was  a  
fellow  named  Henry  Bowers.
If  there  has  ever  been  a  genuinely  evil  kid  strutting  across  the  
skin  of  the  world,  Ricky  Lee,
Henry  Bowers  was  that  kid.  I  wasn't  the  only  kid  he  used  to  take  
after;  my  problem  was,  I
couldn't run as fast as some of the others.'

Hanscom  unbuttoned  his  shirt  and  opened  it.  Leaning  forward,  Ricky  
Lee  saw  a  funny,
twisted scar on Mr Hanscom's stomach, just above his navel. Puckered, white, 
and old. It was
a  letter,  he  saw.  Someone  had  carved  the  letter  'H'  into  the  man's  
stomach,  probably  long
before Mr Hanscom had been a man.

'Henry  Bowers  did  that  to  me.  About  a  thousand  years  ago.  I'm  lucky 
 I'm  not  wearing  his
whole damned name down there.'

'Mr Hanscom — '

Hanscom  took  the  other  two  lemon-slices,  one  ni  each hand, tilted his 
head back, and took

them  like  nose-drops.  He  shuddered  wrackingly,  put  them  aside,  and  
took  two  big  swallows


from  the  stein.  He  shuddered  again,  took  another  gulp,  and  then  
groped  for  the  padded  edge
of  the  bar  with  his  eyes  closed. For a moment he held on like a man on a 
sailboat clinging to
the rail for support in a heavy sea. Then he opened his eyes again and smiled 
at Ricky Lee.

'I could ride this bull all night,' he said.

'Mr Hanscom, I wish you wouldn't do that anymore,' Ricky Lee said nervously.

Annie  came  over  to  the  waitresses'  stand  with  her  tray  and  called  
for  a  couple  of  Millers.

Ricky Lee drew them and took them down to her. His legs felt rubbery.

'Is Mr Hanscom all right, Ricky Lee?' Annie asked. She was  looking past Ricky 
Lee and he
turned  to  follow  her  gaze.  Mr  Hanscom  was  leaning  over  the  bar,  
carefully  picking  lemon-
slices out of the caddy where Ricky Lee kept the drink garnishes.

'I don't know,' he said. 'I don't think so.'

'Well  get  your  thumb  out  of  your  ass  and  do  something  about  it.'  
Annie  was,  like  most
other women, partial to Ben Hanscom.

'I dunno. My daddy always said that if a man's in his right mind — '

'Your  daddy  didn't  have  the  brains  God  gave  a  gopher,'  Annie  said.  
'Never  mind your
daddy. You got to put a stop to that, Ricky Lee. He's going to kill himself.'

Thus  given  his  marching  orders,  Ricky  Lee  went  back  down  to  where  
Ben  Hanscom  sat.
'Mr Hanscom, I really think you've had en — '

Hanscom  tilted  his  head  back.  Squeezed.  Actually  sniffed  the  
lemon-juice  back  this  time,

as  if  it  were  cocaine.  He  gulped  whiskey  as  if  it  were  water.  He  
looked  at  Ricky  Lee
solemnly.  'Bing-bang,  I  saw  the  whole  gang,  dancing  on  my  living-room 
 rug,'  he  said,  and
then laughed. There was maybe two inches of whiskey left in the stem.

'That is enough,' Ricky Lee said, and reached for the stein.

Hanscom  moved  it  gently  out  of  his  reach.  'Damage  has  been  done,  
Ricky  Lee,'  he  said.
'The damage has been done, boy.'

'Mr Hanscom, please — '

'I've got something for your kids, Ricky Lee. Damn if I didn't almost forget!'

He  was  wearing  a  faded  denim  vest,  and  now  he  reached  something  out 
 of  one  of  its
pockets. Ricky Lee heard a muted clink.

'My dad died when I was four,' Hanscom said. There was no slur at all in his 
voice. 'Left us
a  bunch  of  debts  and  these.  I  want  your  kiddos  to  have  them,  Ricky 
 Lee.'  He  put  three
cartwheel  silver  dollars  on  the  bar,  where  they  gleamed  under  the  
soft  lights.  Ricky  Lee
caught his breath.

'Mr Hanscom, that's very kind, but I couldn't — '

'There  used  to  be  four,  but  I  gave  one  of  them  to  Stuttering  Bill  
and  the  others.  Bill
Denbrough,  that  was  his  real  name.  Stuttering  Bill's  just  what  we  
used  to  call  him  .  .  .  just  a
thing  we  used  to  say, like "You bet your fur." He was one of the best 
friends I ever had  — I
did have a few, you know, even a fat kid like me had a few. Stuttering Bill's a 
writer now.'

Ricky  Lee  barely  heard  him.  He  was  looking  at  the  cartwheels,  
fascinated.  1921,  1923, and
1924. God knew what they were worth now, just in terms of the pure silver they 
contained.

'I couldn't,' he said again.

'But  I  insist.'  Mr  Hanscom  took  hold  of  the  stein  and  drained  it.  
He  should  have  been  flat
on   his   keister,   but   his   eyes   never  left  Ricky  Lee's.  Those  
eyes  were  watery,  and  very
bloodshot,  but  Ricky  Lee  would  have  sworn  on  a  stack  of  Bibles  that 
 they  were  also  the  eyes
of            a sober man.

'You're  scaring  me  a  little,  Mr  Hanscom,'  Ricky  Lee  said.  Two  years  
ago  Gresham  Arnold,
a  rumdum  of  some  local  repute,  had  come  into  the  Red  Wheel  with  a  
roll  of  quarters  in  his
hand  and  a  twenty  dollar  bill  stuck  into  the  band  of  his  hat.  He  
handed  the  roll  to  Annie  with
instructions  to  feed  the  quarters  into  the  juke-box  by  fours.  He  put 
 the  twenty on the bar and
instructed  Ricky  Lee  to  set  up  drinks  for  the  house.  This  rumdum,  
this  Gresham  Arnold,  had


long  ago  been  a  star  basketball  player  for  the  Hemingford  Rams,  
leading  them  to  their  first
(and  most  likely  last)  high-school  team  championship.  In  1961  that  
had  been.  An  almost
unlimited  future  seemed  to  lie  ahead  of  the  young  man.  But  he  had  
flunked  out  of  LSU  his
first  semester,  a  victim  of  drink,  drugs,  and  all-night  parties.  He  
came  home,  cracked  up  the
yellow  convertible  his  folks  had  given  him  as  a  graduation  present,  
and  got  a  job  as  head
salesman in his daddy's John Deere dealership. Five years passed. His father 
could not bear to
fire him, and so he finally sold the dealership and retired to Arizona, a man 
haunted and made
old  before  his  tune  by  the  inexplicable  and  apparently  irreversible  
degeneration  of  his  son.
While  the  dealership  still  belonged  to  his  daddy  and  he  was  at  
least  pretending  to  work,
Arnold   had   made   some   effort   to   keep   the   booze   at   arm's   
length;   afterward,   it   got   him
completely.  He  could  get  mean,  but  he  had  been  just  as  sweet  as  
horehound  candy  the  night
he  brought  in  the  quarters  and  set  up  drinks  for  the  house,  and  
everyone  had  thanked  him
kindly,  and  Annie  kept  playing  Moe  Bandy  songs  because  Gresham  Arnold 
 liked  ole  Moe
Bandy.  He  sat  there  at  the  bar   —  on  the  very  stool  where  Mr  
Hanscom  was  sitting  now,
Ricky  Lee  realized  with  steadily  deepening  unease   —  and  drank  three  
or  four  bourbon-and-
bitters,  and  sang  along  with  the  juke,  and  caused  no  trouble,  and  
went  home  when Ricky Lee
closed  the  Wheel  up,  and  hanged  himself  with  his  belt  in  an  
upstairs  closet.  Gresham  Arnold's
eyes that night had looked a little bit like Ben Hanscom's eyes looked right 
now.

'Scaring  you  a  bit,  am  I?'  Hanscom  asked,  his  eyes  never  leaving  
Ricky  Lee's.  He  pushed
the  stein  away  and  then  folded  his  hands  neatly  in  front  of  those  
three  silver  cartwheels.  'I
probably am. But you're not as scared as I am, Ricky Lee. Pray to Jesus you 
never are.'

'Well,  what's  the  matter?'  Ricky  Lee  asked.  'Maybe — ' He wet his lips. 
'Maybe I can give

you a help.'

'The  matter?'  Ben  Hanscom  laughed.  'Why,  not  too  much.  I  had  a  call 
 from  an  old  friend
tonight.  Guy  named  Mike  Hanlon.  I'd  forgotten  all  about  him,  Ricky  
Lee,  but  that  didn't  scare
me  much.  After all, I was just a kid when I knew him, and kids forget things, 
don't they? Sure
they  do.  You  bet  your  fur.  What  scared  me  was  getting  about  halfway 
 over  here  and  realizing
that it wasn't just Mike I'd forgotten about — I'd forgotten everything about 
being a kid.'

Ricky Lee only looked at him. He had no idea what Mr Hanscom was talking about  
— but

the man was scared, all right. No question about that. It sat funny on Ben 
Hanscom, but it was
real.

'I  mean  I'd  forgotten  all  about  it,'   he  said,  and  rapped  his  
knuckles  lightly  on  the  bar  for
emphasis.  'Did  you  ever  hear,  Ricky  Lee,  of  having  an  amnesia  so  
complete  you  didn't  even
know you had amnesia?'

Ricky Lee shook his head.

'Me  either.  But  there  I  was,  tooling  along  in  the  Caddy  tonight,  
and all of a sudden it hit
me.  I  remembered  Mike  Hanlon,  but  only  because  he  called  me  on  the  
phone.  I  remembered
Derry, but only because that was where he was calling from.'

'Derry?'

'But that was  all.  It  hit  me  that  I  hadn't  even  thought  about  being  
a  kid  since  .  .  .  since  I
don't  even  know  when.  And  then,  just  like  that,  it  all  started  to  
flood  back  in.  Like  what  we
did with the fourth silver dollar.'

'What did you do with it, Mr Hanscom?'

Hanscom  looked  at  his  watch,  and  suddenly  slipped  down  from  his  
stool.  He  staggered  a
bit —  the  slightest  bit.  That  was  all.  'Can't  let  the  time  get  away 
 from  me,'  he  said.  'I'm  flying
tonight.'

Ricky Lee looked instantly alarmed, and Hanscom laughed.

'Flying but not driving the plane. Not this time . United Airlines, Ricky Lee.'

'Oh.' He supposed his relief showed on his face, but he didn't care. 'Where are 
you going?'


Hanscom's  shirt  was  still  open.  He  looked  thoughtfully  down  at  the  
puckered white lines of
the old scar on his belly and then began to button the shirt over it.

'Thought  I  told  you  that,  Ricky  Lee.  Home.  I'm  going  home.  Give  
those  cartwheels  to  your
kids.'  He  started  toward  the  door,  and  something  about  the  way  he  
walked,  even  the  way  he
hitched  at  the  sides  of  his  pants,  terrified  Ricky  Lee.  The  
resemblance  to  the  late  and  mostly
unlamented Gresham Arnold was suddenly so acute it was nearly like seeing a 
ghost.

'Mr Hanscom!' he cried in alarm.

Hanscom  turned  back,  and  Ricky  Lee  stepped  quickly  backward.  His  ass  
hit  the backbar
and  glassware  gossiped  briefly  as  the  bottles  knocked  together.  He  
stepped  back  because  he
was  suddenly  convinced  that  Ben  Hanscom  was  dead.  Yes,  Ben  Hanscom  
was  lying  dead
someplace, in a ditch or an attic or possibly in a closet with a belt noosed 
around his neck and
the       toes  of  his  four-hundred-dollar cowboy boots dangling an inch or 
two above the floor, and
this thing standing near the juke and staring back at him was a ghost. For a 
moment  — just a
moment,  but  it  was  plenty  long  enough  to  cover  his  working  heart  
with  a  rime  of  ice  — he
was convinced he could see tables and chairs right through the man.

'What is it, Ricky Lee?'
'Nuh-n-nuh. Nothin.'

Ben  Hanscom  looked  out  at  Ricky  Lee  from  eyes  which  had  dark-purple 
crescents beneath
them. His cheeks burned with liquor; his nose looked red and sore.

'Nothin,'  Ricky  Lee  whispered  again,  but  he  couldn't  take  his  eyes  
from  that  face,  the  face
of a man who has died deep in sin and now stands hard by hell's smoking side 
door.

'I  was  fat  and  we  were  poor,'  Ben  Hanscom  said.  'I  remember  that  
now.  And  I  remember

that  either  a  girl  named  Beverly  or  Stuttering  Bill  saved  my  life  
with  a  silver  dollar.  I'm
scared  almost  insane  by  whatever  else  I  may  remember  before  tonight's 
 over,  but  how  scared
I  am  doesn't  matter,  because  it's  going  to  come  anyway.  It's  all  
there,  like  a  great  big  bubble
that's  growing  in  my  mind.  But  I'm  going,  because  all  I've  ever  
gotten  and  all  I  have  now  is
somehow  due  to  what  we  did  then,  and  you  pay  for  what  you  get in 
this world. Maybe that's
why  God  made  us  kids  first  and  built  us  close  to  the  ground,  
because  He  knows  you  got  to
fall  down  a  lot  and  bleed  a  lot  before  you  learn  that  one  simple  
lesson.  You  pay  for  what  you
get, you own what you pay for . . . and sooner or later whatever you own comes 
back home to
you.'

'You  gonna  be  back  this  weekend,  though,  ain't  you?'  Ricky  Lee  asked 
 through  numbed
lips. In his increasing distress this was all he could find to hold on to. 'You 
gonna be back this
weekend just like always, ain't you?'

'I  don't  know,'  Mr  Hanscom  said,  and  smiled  a  terrible  smile.  'I'm  
going  a  lot  farther  than
London this time, Ricky Lee.'

'Mr Hanscom — !'

'You give those cartwheels to your kids,' he repeated, and slipped out into the 
night.

'What  the  blue  hell?  Annie  asked,  but  Ricky  Lee  ignored  her.  He  
flipped  up  the  bar's
partition and ran over to one of the windows which looked out on the parking 
lot. He saw the
headlights  of  Mr  Hanscom's  Caddy  come  on,  heard  the  engine  rev.  It  
pulled out of the dirt lot,
kicking  up  a  rooster-tail  of  dust  behind  it.  The  taillights  dwindled  
away  to  red  points  down
Highway 63, and the Nebraska nightwind began to pull the hanging dust apart.

'He  took  on  a  boxcar  full  of  booze  and  you  let  him  get   in  that  
big  car  of  his  and  drive
away,' Annie said. 'Way to go, Ricky Lee.'

'Never mind.'

'He's going to kill himself.'

And  although  this  had  been  Ricky  Lee's  own  thought  less  than  five  
minutes  ago,  he  turned
to her when the taillights winked out of sight and shook his head.


'I  don't  think  so,'  he  said.  'Although  the  way  he  looked  tonight,  
it  might  be  better  for  him  if
he did.'

'What did he say to you?'

He  shook  his  head.  It  was  all  confused  in  his  mind,  and  the  sum  
total  of  it  seemed to mean
nothing. 'It doesn't matter. But I don't think we're ever going to see that old 
boy again.'

4

Eddie Kaspbrak Takes His Medicine

If you would know all there is to know about an American man or woman of the 
middle class

as  the  millennium  nears  tis  end,  you  would  need  only  to  look  in  
his  or  her  medicine  cabinet

—  or so it has been said. But dear Lord, get a look into this one as Eddie 
Kaspbrak slides it
open, mercifully sliding aside his white face and wide, staring eyes.

On  the  top  shelf  there's  Anacin,  Excedrin,  Excedrin  PM,   Contac,  
Gelusil,  Tylenol,  and  a
large  blue  jar  of  Vicks,  looking  like  a  bit  of  brooding  deep  
twilight  under  glass.  There  is  a
bottle   of   Vivarin,   a   bottle   of   Serutan  (That's   'Nature's'   
spelled   backwards,   the  ads  on
Lawrence  Welk  used  to  say  when  Eddie  Kaspbrak  was  but  a  wee  slip  
of  a  lad),  and  two
bottles  of  Phillips  Milk  of  Magnesia  —  the  regular,  which  tastes  
like  liquid  chalk,  and  the
new  mint  flavor,  which  tastes  like  mint-flavored  liquid  chalk.  Here  
is  a  large  bottle  of Rolaids
standing  chummily  close  to  a  large  bottle  of  Turns.  The  Turns  are  
standing  next  to  a  large
bottle  of  orange-flavored  Di-Gel  tablets.  The  three  of  them  look  like 
 a  trio  of  strange  piggy-
banks, stuffed with pills instead of dimes.

Second  shelf,  and  dig  the  vites:  you  got  your  E,  your  C,  your  C  
with  rosehips.  You  got  B-
simple  and  B-complex  and  B-12.  There's  L-Lysine,  which  is  supposed  to 
 do  something  about
those  embarrassing  skin  problems,  and  lecithin,  which  is  supposed  to  
do  something  about  that
embarrassing  cholesterol  build -up  in  and  around  the  Big  Pump.  There's 
 iron,  calcium,  and
cod   liver   oil.   There's   One -A-Day   multiples,   Myadec   multiples,   
Centrum   multiples.   And
sitting up on top of the cabinet itself is a gigantic bottle of Geritol, just 
for good measure.

Moving   right   along   to   Eddie's   third   shelf,   we   find   the   
utility   infielders   of   the   patent-
medicine  world.  Ex-Lax.  Carter's  Little  Pills.  Those  two  keep  Eddie  
Kaspbrak  moving  the
mail.  Here,  nearby,  is  Kaopectate,  Pepto-Bismol,  and  Preparation  H  in  
case  the  mail  moves
too  fast  or  too  painfully.  Also  some  Tucks  in  a  screw-top jar just to 
keep everything tidy after
the  mail  has  gone  through,  be  it  just  an  advertising  circular  or  
two  addressed  to  OCCUPANT  or
a  big  old  special-delivery  package.  Here  is  Formula  44  for  coughs,  
Nyquil  and  Dristan  for
colds,  and  a  big  bottle  of  castor  oil.  There's  a  tin  of  Sucrets  in 
 case  Eddie's  throat  gets  sore,
and there's a quartet of mouthwashes: Chloraseptic, Cepacol, Cepestat in the 
spray bottle, and
of  course  good  old  Listerine,  often  imitated  but  never  duplicated.  
Visine  and  Murine  for  the
eyes.  Cortaid  and  Neosporin  ointment  for  the  skin  (the  second  line  
of  defense  if  the  L-Lysine
doesn't  live  up  to  expectations),  a  tube  of  Oxy-5  and  a  plastic  
bottle  of  Oxy-Wash (because
Eddie   would   definitely   rather   have   a   few   less   cents   than   a  
 few   more   zits),   and   some
tetracyline pills.

And off to one side, clustered like bitter conspirators, are three bottles of 
coal-tar shampoo.

The  bottom  shelf  is  almost  deserted,  but  the  stuff  which  is  here  
means  serious  business  —
you  could  cruise  on  this  stuff,  okay.  On  this  stuff  you  could  fly  
higher  than  Ben  Hanscom's
jet  and  crash  harder  than  Thurman  Munson's.  There's  Valium,  Percodan,  
Elavil,  and  Darvon
Complex.  There  is  also another Sucrets box on this low shelf, but there are 
no Sucrets in it. If
you opened that one you would find six Quaaludes.

Eddie Kaspbrak believed in the Boy Scout motto.


He  was  swinging  a  blue  tote-bag  as  he  came  into  the  bathroom.  He  
set  it  on  the  sink,
unzipped  it,  and  then,  with  trembling  hands,  he  began  to  spill  
bottles  and  jars  and  tubes  and
squeeze -bottles  and  spray-bottles  into  it.  Under  other  circumstances  
he  would  have  taken
them  out  handful  by  careful  handful,  but  there  was  no  time  for  such 
 niceties  now.  The  choice,
as  Eddie  saw  it,  was  as  simple  as  it  was  brutal:  get  moving  and  
keep  moving  or  stand  in  one
place long enough to start thinking about what all of this meant and simply die 
of fright.

'Eddie?' Myra called up from downstairs. 'Eddie, what are you dooooing?

Eddie  dropped  the  Sucrets  box  containing  the  'ludes  into  the  bag.  
The  medicine  cabinet
was  now  entirely  empty  except  for  Myra's  Midol  and  a  small,  almost  
used-up tube of Blistex.
He  paused  for  a  moment  and  then  grabbed  the  Blistex.  He  started  to  
zip  the  bag  closed,
debated, and then threw in the Midol as well. She could always buy more.

'Eddie?' from halfway up the stairs now.

Eddie  zipped  the  bag  the  rest  of  the  way  closed  and  then  left  the  
bathroom,  swinging it by
his  side.  He  was  a  short  man  with  a  timid,  rabbity  sort  of  face.  
Much  of  his  hair  was  gone;
what  was  left  grew  in  listless,  piebald  patches.  The  weight  of  the  
bag  pulled  him  noticeably  to
one side.

An  extremely  large  woman  was  climbing  slowly  to  the  second  floor.  
Eddie  could  hear  the
stairs creak protestingly under her.

'What are you DOOOOOOOOING?'

Eddie  did  not  need  a  shrink  to  tell  him  that  he  had,  in  a  sense,  
married  his  mother.  Myra
Kaspbrak  was  huge.  She  had  only  been  big  when  Eddie  married  her  
five  years  ago,  but  he
sometimes  thought  his  subconscious  had  seen  the  potential  for  hugeness 
 in  her;  God  knew  his
own  mother  had  been  a  whopper.  And  she  looked  somehow  more  huge  
than  ever  as  she
reached   the   second-floor   landing.   She   was   wearing   a   white   
nightgown   which   swelled,
comberlike,  at  bosom  and  hip.  Her  face,  devoid  of  make-up, was white 
and shiny. She looked
badly frightened.

'I have to go away for awhile,' Eddie said.

'What do you mean, you have to go away? What was that telephone call?'

'Nothing,'  he  said,  fleeing  abruptly  down  the  hallway  to  their  
walk-in  closet.  He  put  the
tote-bag  down,  opened  the  closet's  fold-back  door,  and  raked  aside  
the  half-dozen identical
black   suits   which   hung   there,   as   conspicuous   as   a   
thundercloud  among  the  other,  more
brightly  colored,  clothes.  He  always  wore  one  of  the  black  suits  
when  he  was  working.  He
bent  into  the  closet,  smelling  mothballs  and  wool,  and  pulled  out  
one  of  the  suitcases  from  the
back. He opened it and began throwing clothes in.

Her shadow fell over him.

'What's this about, Eddie? Where are you going? You tell me!'
'I can't tell you.'

She  stood  there,  watching  him,  trying  to  decide  what  to  say  next,  
or  what  to  do.  The
thought  of  simply  bundling  him  into  the  closet  and  then  standing  
with  her  back  against  the
door  until  this  madness  had  passed  crossed  her  mind,  but  she  was  
unable  to  bring  herself  to
do   it,   although   she   certainly   could   have;   she   was   three   
inches   taller   than   Eddie   and
outweighed  him  by  a  hundred  pounds.  She  couldn't  think  of  what  to  
do  or  say,  because  this
was  so  utterly  unlike  him.  She  could  not  have  been  any  more  
dismayed  and  frightened  if  she
had walked into the television room and found their new big-screen TV floating 
in the air.

'You   can't   go,'   she   heard   herself   saying.   'You   promised   you'd 
  get   me   Al   Pacino's
autograph.' It was an absurdity  — God knew it was  — but at this point even an 
absurdity was
better than nothing.

'You'll still get it,' Eddie said. 'You'll have to drive him yourself.'

Oh,  here  was  a  new  terror  to  join  those  already  circling  in  her  
poor  dazzled  head.  She
uttered a small scream. 'I can't — I never — '


'You'll have to,' he said. He was examining his shoes now. 'There's no one 
else.'
'Neither of my uniforms fit anymore! They're too tight in the tits!'

'Have  Delores  let  one  of  them  out,'  he  said  implacably.  He  threw  
two  pairs  of  shoes  back,
found an empty shoebox, and popped a third pair into it. Good black shoes, 
plenty of use left
in  them  still,  but  looking  just  a  bit  too  worn  to  wear  on  the  
job.  When  you  drove  rich  people
around  New  York  for  a  living,  many of them  famous  rich people, 
everything had to look just
right. These shoes no longer looked just right . . . but he supposed they would 
do for where he
was  going.  And  for  whatever  he  might  have  to  do  when  he  got  there. 
 Maybe  Richie  Tozier
would —

But  then  the  blackness  threatened  and  he  felt  his  throat  beginning  
to  close  up.  Eddie
realized  with  real  panic  that  he  had  packed  the  whole  damned  
drugstore and had left the most
important thing of all — his aspirator — downstairs on top of the stereo 
cabinet.

He banged the suitcase closed and latched it. He looked around at Myra, who was 
standing
there  in  the  hallway  with  her  hand  pressed  against  the   short thick 
column of her neck as if she
were  the  one  with  the  asthma.  She  was  staring  at  him,  her  face  
full  of  perplexity  and  terror,
and  he  might  have  felt  sorry  for  her  if  his  heart  had  not  already  
been  so  filled  with  terror  for
himself.

'What's  happened,  Eddie?  Who  was  that  on  the  telephone?  Are  you  in  
trouble?  You  are,
aren't you? What kind of trouble are you in?'

He  walked  toward  her,  zipper-bag  in  one  hand  and  suitcase  in  the  
other,  standing  more  or
less  straight  now  that  he  was  more  evenly  weighted.  She  moved  in  
front  of  him,  blocking  off
the  stairway,  and  at  first  he  thought  she  would  not  give  way.  Then, 
 when  his  face  was  about
to  crash  into  the  soft  roadblock  of  her  breasts,  she  did  give  way  
.  .  .  fearfully.  As  he  walked
past, never slowing, she burst into miserable tears.

'I  can't  drive  Al  Pacino!'  she bawled.  'I'll smash into a stop-sign or 
something, I know I
will! Eddie I'm scaaarrred!'

He  looked  at  the  Seth  Thomas  clock  on  the  table  by  the  stairs.  
Twenty  past  nine.  The
canned-sounding  Delta  clerk  had  told  him  he  had  already  missed  the  
last  flight  north  to
Maine  —  that  one  had  left  La  Guardia  at  eight-twenty-five.  He  had  
called  Amtrak  and
discovered  there  was  a  late  train  to  Boston  departing  Perm  Station  
at  eleven-thirty. It would
drop  him  off  at  South  Station,  where  he  could  take  a  cab  to  the  
offices  of  Cape  Cod
Limousine  on  Arlington  Street.  Cape  Cod  and  Eddie's  company,  Royal  
Crest,  had  worked  out
a  useful  and  friendly  reciprocal  arrangement  over  the  years.  A  quick  
call  to  Butch Carrington
in  Boston  had  taken  care  of  his  transportation  north —  Butch  said  he 
 would  have  a  Cadillac
limo  gassed  and  ready  for  him.  So  he  would  go  in  style,  and  with  
no  pain-in-the-ass client
sitting  in  the  back  seat,  stinking  the  air  up  with  a  big  cigar and 
asking if Eddie knew where he
could score a broad or a few grams of coke or both.

Going in style, all right,  he thought.  Only way you could go in more style 
would be if you
were  going  in  a  hearse.  But  don't  worry,  Eddie  — that's probably how 
you'll come back. If
there's enough of you left to pick up, that is.

'Eddie?'

Nine-twenty.  Plenty  of  time  to  talk  to  her,  plenty  of  time  to  be  
kind.  Ah,  but  it  would  have
been  so  much  better  if  this  had  been  her  whist  night,  if  he  could  
have  just  slipped out, leaving
a  note  under  one  of  the  magnets  on  the  refrigerator  door  (the  
refrigerator  door  was  where  he
left  all  his  notes  for  Myra, because  there  she  never  missed  them).  
Leaving  that  way  —  like a
fugitive —  would  not  have  been  good,  but  this  was  even  worse. This 
was like having to leave
home all over again, and that had been so hard he'd had to do it three times.

Sometimes home is where the heart is,  Eddie thought randomly. I believe that. 
Old Bobby
Frost  said  home's  the  place  where,  when  you  have  to go there, they 
have to take you in.


Unfortunately, it's also the place where, once you're in there, they don't ever 
want to let you
out.

He  stood  at  the  head  of  the  stairs,  forward  motion  temporarily  
spent,  filled  with  fear,  breath
wheezing noisily  in  and  out  of  the  pinhole  his  throat  had  become,  
and  regarded  his  weeping
wife.

'Come on downstairs with me and I'll tell you what I can,' he said.

Eddie put his two bags  —  clothes  in  one,  medicine  in  the  other  — by 
the door in the front
hall.  He  remembered something else then . . . or rather the ghost of his 
mother, who had been
dead many years but who still spoke frequently in his mind, remembered for him.

You  know  when  your  feet  get  wet  you  always  get  a  cold,  Eddie  — 
you're not like other
people, you have a very weak system, you have to be careful. That's why you 
must always
wear your rubbers when it rains.

It rained a lot in Derry.

Eddie  opened  the  front-hall closet, got his rubbers off the hook where they 
hung neatly in a
plastic bag, and put them in his clothes suitcase.

That's a good boy, Eddie.

He  and  Myra  had  been  watching  TV  when  the  shit  hit  the  fan.  Eddie  
went  into  the
television  room  and  pushed  the  button  which  lowered  the  screen  of  
the  MuralVision  TV  —
its  screen  was  so  big  that  it  made  Freeman  McNeil  look  like  a  
visitor  from  Brobdingnag  on
Sunday  afternoons.  He  picked  up  the  telephone  and  called  a  taxi.  The 
 dispatcher  told  him  it
would probably be fifteen minutes. Eddie said that was no problem.

He  hung  up  and  grabbed  his  aspirator  off  the  top  of  their  expensive 
 Sony  compact-disc

player. I spent fifteen hundred bucks on a state-of-the-art sound system so 
that Myra wouldn't
miss a single golden note on her Barry Manilow records and her 'Supremes 
Greatest Hits,' he
thought, and then felt a flush of guilt. That wasn't fair, and he damn well 
knew it. Myra would
have  been  just  as  happy  with  her  old  scratchy  records  as  she  was  
with  the  new  45-rpm-sized
laser  discs,  just  as  she  would  have  been  happy  to  keep  on  living  
in  the little four-room house
in  Queens  until  they  were  both  old  and  gray  (and,  if  the  truth  
were  told,  there  was  a  little
snow  on  Eddie  Kaspbrak's  mountain  already).  He  had  bought  the  luxury  
sound  system  for  the
same  reasons  that  he  had  bought  this  low  fieldstone  house  on  Long  
Island,  where  the  two  of
them  often  rattled  around  like  the  last  two  peas  in  a  can:  because  
he  had  been  able  to,  and
because   they   were   ways   of   appeasing   the   soft,   frightened,   
often   bewildered,   always
implacable  voice  of  his  mother;  they  were  ways  of  saying:  I  made  
it,  Ma!  Look  at  all  this!  I
made    it! Now will you please for Christ's sake shut up awhile?

Eddie  stuffed  the  aspirator  into  his  mouth  and,  like  a  man  miming  
suicide,   pulled  the
trigger.  A  cloud  of  awful  licorice  taste  roiled   and  boiled  its  way  
down  his  throat,  and  Eddie
breathed  deeply.  He  could  feel  breathing  passages  which  had  almost  
closed  start  to  open  up
again.  The  tightness  in  his  chest  started  to  ease,  and  suddenly  he  
heard  voices  in  his  mind,
ghost-voices.

Didn't you get the note I sent you?
I got it, Mrs Kaspbrak, but —

Well, in case you can't read, Coach Black, let me tell you in person. Are you 
ready?

Mrs Kaspbrak —

Good.  Here  it  comes,  from  my  lips  to  your  ears.  Ready?  My  Eddie  
cannot  take  physical
education. I repeat: he canNOT take phys ed. Eddie is very delicate, and if he 
runs . . . or
jumps     . . .

Mrs  Kaspbrak,  I  have  the  results  of  Eddie's  last  physical  on  file  
in  my  office  — that's a
state requirement. It says that Eddie is a little small for his age, but 
otherwise he's absolutely
normal. So I called your family physician just to be sure and he confirmed —


Are you saying I'm a liar, Coach Black? Is that it? Well, here he is! Here's 
Eddie, standing
right beside me! Can you hear the way he's breathing? CAN you?

Mom . . . please . . . I'm all right . . .

Eddie, you know better than that. I taught you better than that. Don't 
interrupt your elders.
I hear him, Mrs Kaspbrak, but —

Do you? Good! I thought maybe you were deaf! He sounds like a truck going 
uphill in low

gear, doesn't he? And if that isn't asthma —
Mom, I'll be —

Be quiet, Eddie, don't interrupt me again. If that isn't asthma, Coach Black, 
then I'm Queen

Elizabeth!

Mrs  Kaspbrak,  Eddie  often  seems  very  well  and  happy  in  his  
physical-education classes.
He loves to play games, and he runs quite fast. In my conversation with Dr 
Baynes, the word
'psychosomatic' came up. I wonder if you've considered the possibility that —

—  that  my  son  is  crazy?  Is that what you're trying to say? ARE YOU TRYING 
TO SAY
THAT MY SON IS CRAZY????

No, but —
He's delicate.

Mrs Kaspbrak —

My son is very delicate.

Mrs Kaspbrak, Dr Baynes confirmed that he could find nothing at all —

'   —   physically   wrong,'   Eddie   finished.   The   memory   of   that   
humiliating   encounter,   his
mother   screaming   at   Coach   Black   in   the   Derry   Elementary   
School   gymnasium   while   he
gasped  and  cringed  at  her  side  and  the  other  kids  huddled  around  
one  of  the  baskets  and
watched,  had  recurred  to  him  tonight  for  the  first  time  in  years.  
Nor  was  that  the  only
memory  which  Mike  Hanlon's  call  was  going  to  bring  back,  he  knew.  
He  could  feel  many
others,  as  bad  or  even  worse,  crowding  and  jostling  like  sale-mad  
shoppers  bottlenecked  in  a
department-store  doorway.  But  soon  the  bottleneck  would  break  and  they 
 would  be  along.  He
was  quite  sure  of  that.  And  what  would  they  find  on  sale?  His  
sanity?  Could  be.  Half-Price.
Smoke and Water Damage. Everything Must Go.

'Nothing  physically  wrong,'  he  repeated,  took  a  deep  shuddery  breath,  
and  stuffed  the
aspirator into his pocket.

'Eddie,' Myra said. 'Please tell me what all of this is about!'

Tear-tracks  shone  on  her  chubby  cheeks.  Her  hands  twisted  restlessly  
together  like  a  pair
of  pink  and  hairless  animals  at  play.  Once,  shortly  before  actually  
proposing  marriage,  he  had
taken  a  picture  of  Myra  which  she  had  given  him  and  had  put  it  
next  to  one  of  his  mother,
who  had  died  of  congestive  heart-failure  at  the  age  of  sixty-four.  
At  the  time  of  her  death
Eddie's  mother  had  topped  the  scales  at  over  four  hundred  pounds  — 
four hundred and six, to
be  exact.  She  had  become  something  nearly  monstrous  by  then  —  her  
body  had  seemed
nothing   more   than   boobs   and   butt   and   belly,   all   overtopped   
by   her   pasty,   perpetually
dismayed  face.  But  the  picture  of  her  which  he  put  next  to  Myra's  
picture  had  been  taken  in
1944, two years before he had been born  (You  were  a  very  sickly  baby,  
the  ghost-mom now
whispered in his ear.  Many times we despaired of your life . . . ). In 1944 
his mother had been
a relatively svelte one hundred and eighty pounds.

He  had  made  that  comparison,  he  supposed,  in  a  last-ditch  effort  to  
stop  himself  from
committing psychological incest. He looked from Mother to Myra and back again 
to Mother.

They could have been sisters. The resemblance was that close.

Eddie  looked  at  the  two  nearly  identical  pictures  and  promised  
himself  he  would  not  do
this  crazy  thing.  He  knew  that  the  boys  at  work  were  already  making 
 jokes  about  Jack  Sprat
and  his  wife,  but  they  didn't  know  the  half  of  it.  The  jokes  and  
snide  remarks  he  could  take,
but  did  he  really  want  to  be  a  clown  in  such  a  Freudian  circus  as 
 this?  No.  He  did  not.  He


would  break  it  off  with  Myra.  He  would  let  her  down  gently  because  
she  was  really  very
sweet  and  had  had  even  less  experience  with  men  than  he'd  had  with  
women.  And  then,  after
she  had  finally  sailed  over  the  horizon  of  his  life,  he  could  maybe 
 take  those  tennis  lessons
he'd been thinking of for such a long time

(Eddie often seems very well and happy in his physical-education classes')
or there were the pool memberships they were selling at the UN Plaza Hotel
(Eddie loves to play games)

not  to  mention  that  health  club  which  had  opened  up  on  Third  Avenue 
 across  from the
garage . . .

(Eddie runs quite fast he runs quite fast when you're not here runs quite fast 
when there's
nobody around to remind him of how delicate he is and I see in his face Mrs 
Kaspbrak that
he knows even now at the age of nine he knows that the biggest favor in the 
world he could do
himself would be to run fast in any direction you're not going let him go Mrs 
Kaspbrak let
him RUN)

But in the end he had married Myra anyway. In the end the old ways and the old 
habits had
simply  been  too  strong.  Home  was  the  place  where,  when  you have to go 
there, they have to
chain  you  up.  Oh,  he  might  have  beaten  his  mother's  ghost.  It  would 
 have  been  hard  but  he
was  quite  sure  he  could  have  done  that  much,  if  that  had  been  all  
which  needed  doing.  It  was
Myra   herself   who   had   ended   up   tipping   the   scales   away   from  
 independence.   Myra   had
condemned   him   with   solicitude,   had   nailed   him   with   concern,   
had   chained   him   with
sweetness.  Myra,  like  his  mother,  had  reached  the  final,  fatal  
insight  into  his  character: Eddie
was  all  the  more  delicate  because  he  sometimes  suspected  he  was  not  
delicate  at  all;  Eddie
needed to be protected from his own dim intimations of possible bravery.

On  rainy  days  Myra  always  took  his  rubbers  out  of  the  plastic  bag  
in  the  closet  and put
them  by  the  coat-rack  next  to  the  door.  Beside  his  plate  of  
unbuttered  wheat  toast  each
morning  was  a  dish  of  what  might  have  been  taken  at  a  casual  
glance  for  a  multi-colored  pre-
sweetened  children's  cereal,  but  which  a  closer  look  would  have  
revealed  to  be  a  whole
spectrum  of  vitamins  (most  of  which  Eddie  had  in  his  medicine-bag  
right  now).  Myra,  like
Mother,  under-,  stood,  and  there  had  really  been  no  chance  for  him.  
As  a  young  unmarried
man  he  had  left  his  mother  three  times  and  returned  home  to  her 
three times. Then, four years
after  his  mother  had  died  in  the  front  hall  of  her  Queens  
apartment,  blocking  the  front  door  so
completely  with  her  bulk  that  the  Medcu  guys  (called  by  the  people  
downstairs  when  they
heard  the  monstrous  thud  of  Mrs  Kaspbrak  going  down  for  the  final  
count)  had  had  to  break
in  through  the  locked  door  between  the  apartment's  kitchen  and  the  
service  stairwell,  he  had
returned  home  for  a  fourth  and  final  time.  At  least  he  had  believed 
 then  it  was  for  the  final
time — home again, home again, jiggety-jog; home again, home again, with Myra 
the hog. A
hog she was, but she was a sweet hog, and he loved her, and there had really 
been no chance
for   him   at   all.   She   had   drawn   him   to   her   with   the   
fatal,   hypnotizing   snake's   eye   of
understanding. , Home again forever, he had thought then.

But maybe I was wrong, he thought. Maybe this isn't home, nor ever was — maybe 
home is
where I have to go tonight. Home is the place where when you go there, you have 
to finally
face the thing in the dark.

He  shuddered  helplessly,  as  if  he  had  gone  outside  without  his  
rubbers  and  caught  a  terrible
chill.

'Eddie, please!'

She  was  beginning  to  weep  again.  Tears  were  her  final  defense,  just  
as  they  had  always
been  his  mother's:  the  soft  weapon  which  paralyzes,  which  turns  
kindness  and  tenderness  into
fatal chinks in one's armor.

Not that  he'd ever  worn much  armor  anyway  — suits of armor did not seem to 
fit him very

well.


Tears  had  been  more  than  a  defense  for  his  mother;  they  had  been  a 
 weapon. Myra had
rarely  used  her  own  tears  so  cynically  .  .  .  but,  cynically  or  
not,  he  realized  she  was  trying  to
use them that way now . . . and she was succeeding.

He couldn't let her. It would be too easy to think of how lonely it was going 
to be, sitting in
a  seat  on  that  train  as  it  barrelled  north  toward  Boston  through  
the  darkness,  his  suitcase
overhead  and  his  tote-bag  full  of  nostrums  between his feet, the fear 
sitting on his chest like a
rancid  Vicks-pack.  Too  easy  to  let  Myra  take  him  upstairs and make 
love to him with aspirins
and  an  alcohol-rub. And put him to bed, where they might or might not make a 
franker sort of
love.

But he had promised. Promised.

'Myra, listen to me,' he said, making his voice purposely dry, purposely 
matter-of-fact.
She looked at him with her wet, naked, terrified eyes.

He  thought  he  would  try  now  to  explain  —  as  best  he  could;  he  
would  tell  her  atibut  how
Mike Hanlon had called and told him that it had started again, and yes, he 
thought most of the
others were coming.

But what came out of his mouth was much saner stuff.

'Go  down  to  the  office  first  thing  in  the  morning.  Talk  to  Phil.  
Tell  him  I  had  to  take  off
and that you'll drive Pacino — '

'Eddie  I  just  can't!'  she  wailed.  'He's  a  big  star!  If  I  get  lost  
he'll  shout  at  me,  I  know  he

will, he'll shout, they all do when the driver gets lost . . . and . . . and 
I'll cry . . . there could be
an  accident  .  .  .  there  probably  will  be  an  accident  .  .  .  .  
Eddie  .  .  .  Eddie  you  have  to  stay
home         '

'For God's sake! Stop it!'

She  recoiled  from  his  voice,  hurt;  although  Eddie  gripped  his  
aspirator,  he  would  not  use  it.
She would see that as a weakness, one she could use against him. Dear God, if 
You are there,
please believe me when I say I don't want to hurt Myra. I don't want to cut 
her, don't even
want to bruise her. But I promised, we all promised, we swore in blood, please 
help me God
because I have to do this . . . .

'I hate it when you shout at me, Eddie,' she whispered.

'Myra, I hate it when I have to,' he said, and she winced.  There you go, Eddie 
 — you hurt
her again. Why don't you just punch her around the room a few times? That would 
probably
be kinder. And quicker.

Suddenly  —  probably  it  was  the  thought  of  punching  someone  around  
the  room  which
caused  the  image  to  come  —  he  saw  the  face  of  Henry  Bowers.  It  
was  the  first  time  he  had
thought of Bowers in years, and it did nothing for his peace of mind. Nothing 
at all.

He  closed  his  eyes  briefly,  then  opened  them  and  said:  'You  won't  
get  lost,  and  he  won't
shout  at  you.  Mr  Pacino  is  very  nice,  very  understanding.  '  He  had  
never  driven  Pacino  before
in  his  life,  but  contented  himself  with  knowing  that  at  least  the  
law  of  averages  was  on  the
side  of  this  lie  —  according  to  popular  myth  most  celebrities  were  
shitheels,  but  Eddie  had
driven enough of them to know it usually wasn't true.

There  were,  of  course,  exceptions  to  the  rule  — and in most cases the 
exceptions were real
monstrosities. He hoped fervently for Myra's sake that Pacino wasn't one of 
these.

'Is he?' she asked timidly.
'Yes. He is.'

'How do you know?'

'Demetrios  drove  him  two  or  three  times  when  he  worked  at  Manhattan  
Limousine,' Eddie
said glibly. 'He said Mr Pacino always tipped at least fifty dollars.'

'I wouldn't care if he only tipped me fifty cents, as long as he didn't shout 
at me.'

'Myra,  it's  all  as  easy  as  one-two-three.  One,  you  make  the  pickup  
at  the  Saint  Regis
tomorrow at seven  P.M.  and  take  him  over  to  the  ABC  Building. They're 
retaping the last act


of this play Pacino's in  —  American Buffalo,  I think it's called. Two, you 
take him back to the
Saint  Regis  around  eleven.  Three,  you  go  back  to  the  garage,  turn  
in  the  car,  and  sign  the
greensheet.'

That's all?'

'That's all. You can do it standing on your head, Marty.'

She  usually  giggled  at  this  pet  name,  but  now  she  only  looked  at  
him  with  a  painful
childlike solemnity.

'What  if  he  wants  to  go  out  to  dinner  instead  of  back  to  the  
hotel?  Or  for  drinks?  Or for
dancing?'

'I  don't  think  he  will,  but  if  he  does,  you  take  him.  If  it  looks 
 like  he's  going  to  party  all
night,  you  can  call  Phil  Thomas  on  the  radio-phone  after  midnight.  
By  then  he'll  have  a  driver
free  to  relieve  you.  I'd  never  stick  you  with  something  like  this  
in  the  first  place  if  I  had  a
driver  who  was  free,  but  I  got  two  guys  out  sick,  Demetrios  on  
vacation,  and  everyone  else
booked  up  solid.  You'll  be  snug  in  your  own  bed  by  one  in  the  
morning,  Marty  — one in the
morning at the very, very latest. I apple -solutely guarantee it.'

She didn't laugh at apple-solutely, either.

He  cleared  his  throat  and  leaned  forward,  elbows  on  his  knees.  
Instantly  the  ghost-mom
whispered: Don't sit that way, Eddie. It's bad for your posture, and it cramps 
your lungs. You
have very delicate lungs.

He sat up straight again, hardly aware he was doing it.

'This  better  be  the  only  time  I  have  to  drive,'  she  nearly  moaned.  
'I've  turned  into  such  a

horse in the last two years, and my uniforms look so bad now.'
'It's the only time, I swear.'

'Who called you, Eddie?'

As  if  on  cue,  lights  swept  across  the  wall;  a  horn  honked  once  as  
the  cab  turned  into  the
driveway.  He  felt  a  surge  of  relief.  They  had  spent  the  fifteen  
minutes  talking  about  Pacino
instead  of  Derry  and  Mike  Hanlon  and  Henry  Bowers,  and  that  was  
good.  Good  for  Myra,
and  good  for  him  as  well.  He  did  not  want  to  spend  any  time  
thinking  or  talking  about  those
things until he had to.

Eddie stood up. 'It's my cab.'

She  got  up  so fast  she  tripped  over  the  hem  of  her  own  nightgown  
and  fell  forward.  Eddie
caught  her,  but  for  a  moment  the  issue  was  in  grave  doubt:  she  
outweighed  him  by  a  hundred
pounds.

And she was beginning to blubber again.
'Eddie, you have to tell me!'

'I can't. There's no time.'

'You never kept anything from me before, Eddie,' she wept.

'And I'm not now. Not really. I don't remember it all. At least, not yet. The 
man who tailed
was — is — an old friend. He — '

'You'll  get  sick,'  she  said  desperately,  following  him  as  he  walked  
toward  the  front  hall
again.  'I  know  you  will.  Let  me  come,  Eddie,  please,  I'll  take  care 
 of  you,  Pacino  can  get  a
cab  or  something,  it  won't  kill  him,  what  do  you  say,  okay?'  Her  
voice  was  rising,  becoming
frantic,  and  to  Eddie's  horror  she  began  to  look  more  and  more  like 
 his  mother,  his  mother  as
she  had  looked  in  the  last  months  before  she  died:  old  and  fat  and 
 crazy.  I'll  rub  your  back
and see that you get your pills . . . . I . . . I'll help you           I won't 
talk if you don't want me to

but  you  can  tell  me  everything  .  .  .  .  Eddie  .  .  .  Eddie,  please 
 don't  go!  Eddie,  please!
Pleeeeeease!'

He  was  striding  down  the  hall  to  the  front  door  now,  walking  blind, 
 head  down,  moving  as
a  man  moves  against  a  high  wind. He  was  wheezing  again.  When  he  
picked  up  the  bags  each
of  them  seemed  to  weigh  a  hundred  pounds.  He  could  feel  her  plump  
pink  hands  on  him,


touching,  exploring,  pulling  with  helpless  desire  but  no  real  
strength,  trying  to  seduce  him
with her sweet tears of concern, trying to draw him back.

I'm not going to make it!  he thought desperately. The asthma was worse now, 
worse than it
had been since he was a kid. He reached for the doorknob but it seemed to be 
receding from
him, receding into the blackness of outer space.

'If you stay I'll make you a sour-cream coffee-cake,' she babbled. 'We'll have 
popcorn . . . .

I'll  make  your  favorite  turkey  dinner  .  .  .  .  I'll  make  it  for  
breakfast  tomorrow  morning  if  you
want . . . I'll start right now . . . and giblet gravy           Eddie please 
I'm scared you're scaring

me so bad!'

She  grabbed  his  collar  and  pulled  him  backward,  like  a  beefy  cop  
putting  the  grab  on  a
suspicious  fellow  who  is  trying  to  flee.  With  a  final  fading  effort, 
 Eddie  kept  going           and

when  he  was  at  the  absolute  end  of  his  strength  and  ability  to  
resist,  he  felt  her  grip  trail
away.

She gave one final wail.

His  fingers  closed  around  the  doorknob  —  how  blessedly  cool  it  was!  
He  pulled  the  door
open  and  saw  a  Checker  cab  sitting  out  there,  an  ambassador  from  
the  land  of  sanity.  The
night was clear. The stars were bright and lucid.

He  turned  back  to  Myra,  whistling  and  wheezing.  'You  need  to  
understand  that  this  isn't
something  I  want  to  do,'  he  said.  'If  I  had  a  choice   —  any  
choice at all  —  I  wouldn't  go.
Please understand that, Marty. I'm going but I'll be coming back.'

Oh but that felt like a lie.
'When? How long?'

'A week. Or maybe ten days. Surely no longer than that.'

'A  week!'  she  screamed,  clutching  at  her  bosom  like  a  diva  in  a  
bad  opera.  'A  week!  Ten
days! Please, Eddie! Pleeeeeee —

'Marty, stop. Okay? Just stop.'

For  a  wonder,  she  did:  stopped  and  stood  looking  at  him  with  her  
wet,  bruised  eyes,  not
angry  at  him,  only  terrified  for  him  and,  coincidentally,  for  
herself.  And  for  perhaps  the  first
time  in  all  the  years  he  had  known  her,  he  felt  that  he  could  
love  her  safely.  Was  that  part  of
the  going  away?  He  supposed  it  was.  No  .  .  .  you  could  flush  the  
supposed. He  knew it was.
Already he felt like something living in the wrong end of a telescope.

But  it  was  maybe  all  right.  Was  that  what  he  meant?  That  he  had  
finally  decided  it  was  all
right  to  love  her?  That  it  was  all  right  even  though  she  looked  
like  his  mother  when  his
mother   had   been   younger   and   even   though   she   ate   brownies   in 
  bed   while   watching
Hardcastle and McCormick or  Falcon  Crest and the crumbs always got on his 
side and even
though  she  wasn't  all  that  bright  and  even  though  she  understood  and 
 condoned  his  remedies
in the medicine cabinet because she kept her own in the refrigerator?

Or was it . . .

Could it be that . . .

These  other  ideas  were  all  things  he  had  considered  in  one  way  or  
another,  at  one  tune  or
another,  during  his  oddly  entwined  lives  as  a  son  and  a  lover  and  
a  husband;  now,  on  the
point  of  leaving  home  for  what  felt  like  the  absolutely  last  time,  
a  new  possibility  came  to
him, and startled wonder brushed him like the wing of some large bird.

Could it be that Myra was even more frightened than he was?
Could it be that his mother had been?

Another  Derry  memory  came  shooting  up  from  his  subconscious  like  a  
balefully  fizzing

firework. There had been a shoe store downtown on Center Street. The Shoeboat. 
His mother
had  taken  him  there  one  day  —  he  thought  he  could  have  been  no  
more  than  five  or  six  —
and told him to sit still and be good while she got a pair of white pumps for a 
wedding. So he
sat  still  and  was  good  while  his  mother  talked  with  Mr  Gardener,  
who  was  one  of  the  shoe-


clerks,  but  he  was  only five (or maybe six), and after his mother had 
rejected the third pair of
white  pumps  Mr  Gardener  showed  her,  Eddie  got  bored  and  walked  over  
to  the  far  corner  to
look  at  something  he  had  spotted  there.  At  first  he  thought  it  was  
just  a  big  crate  standing on
end.  When  he  got  closer  he  decided  it  was  some  kind  of  desk.  But  
it  sure  was  the  kookiest
desk  he  had  ever  seen.  It  was  so  narrow!  It  was  made  of  bright  
polished  wood  with  lots  of
curvy  inlaid  lines  and  carved  doojiggers  in  it.  Also,  there  was  a  
little  flight  of  three  stairs
leading  up  to  it,  and  he  had  never  seen  a  desk  with stairs.  When he 
got right up to it, he saw
that there was a slot at the bottom of the desk-thing, a button on one side, 
and on top of it  —
entrancing! — was something that looked exactly like Captain Video's 
Spacescope.

Eddie walked around to the other side and there was a sign. He must have been 
at least six,
because he had been able to read it, softly whispering each word aloud:

DO YOUR SHOES FIT RIGHT? CHECK AND SEE!

He  went  back  around,  climbed  the  three  steps  to  the  little  platform, 
 and  then  stuck  his  foot
into  the  slot  at  the  bottom  of  the  shoe-checker.  Did  his  shoes  fit  
right"?  Eddie didn't know,
but he was wild to  check and see.  He socked his face into the rubber  
faceguard and thumbed
the  button.  Green  light  flooded  his  eyes.  Eddie  gasped.  He  could  see 
 a  foot  floating  inside  a
shoe  filled  with  green  smoke.  He  wiggled  his  toes,  and  the  toes  he  
was  looking  at  wiggled
right back  —  they were his, all right, just as he  had suspected. And then he 
realized it was not
just  his  toes  he  could  see;  he  could  see  his  bones,  too! The bones 
in his  foot!  He crossed his
great  toe  over  his  second  toe  (as  if  sneakily  warding  off  the  
consequences  of  telling  a  lie)  and
the  eldritch  bones  in  the  scope  made  an  X  that  was  not  white  but  
goblin-green. He could see

—

Then  his  mother  shrieked,  a  rising  sound  of  panic  that  cut  through  
the  quiet  shoe  store  like
a   runaway   reaper-blade,  like  a  firebell,  like  doom  on  horseback.  He 
 jerked  his  startled,
dismayed  face  out  of  the  viewer  and  saw  her  pelting  toward  him  
across  the  store  in  her
stocking  feet,  her  dress  flying  out  behind  her.  She  knocked  a  chair  
over  and  one  of  those
shoe-measuring  things  that  always  tickled  his  feet  went  flying.  Her  
bosom heaved. Her mouth
was                 a scarlet O of horror. Faces turned to follow her progress.

'Eddie get off there!' she screamed. 'Get off there! Those machines give you 
cancer! Get off
there! Eddie! Eddieeeeeee — '

He  backed  away  as  if  the  machine  had  suddenly  grown  red-hot.  In  his 
 startled  panic  he
forgot  the  little  flight  of  stairs  behind  him.  His  heels  dropped  
over  the  top  one  and  he  stood
there,  slowly  falling  backward,  his  arms  pinwheeling  wildly  in  a  
losing  battle  to  retain  his
departing  balance.  And  hadn't  he  thought  with  a  kind  of  mad  joy I'm 
going to fall! I'm going
to find out what it feels like to fall and bump my head! Goody for me! . . . ? 
Hadn't he thought
that?  Or  was  it  only  the  man  imposing  his  own  self-serving  adult  
ideas  over  whatever  his
child's   mind,   always   roaring   with   confused   surmises   and   
half-perceived   images   (images
which lost their sense in their very brightness), had thought . . . or tried to 
think?

Either  way,  it  was  a  moot  question.  He  had  not  fallen.  His  mother  
had  gotten  there in time.

His mother had caught him. He had burst into tears, but he had not fallen.

Everyone  had  been  looking  at  them.  He  remembered  that.  He  remembered  
Mr  Gardener
picking  up  the  shoe-measuring  thing  and  checking  the  little  sliding  
gadgets  on  it  to make sure
they  were  still  okay  while  another  clerk  righted  the  fallen  chair  
and  then  flapped  his  arms
once,   in   amused   disgust,   before   putting   on   his   pleasantly   
neutral   salesman's   face   again.
Mostly  he  remembered  his  mother's  wet  cheek  and  her  hot,  sour  
breath. He remembered her
whispering  over  and  over  in  his  ear,  'Don't  you  ever  do  that  again, 
 don't  you  ever  do  that
again, don't you  ever. '  It  was  what  his  mother  chanted  to  ward  off  
trouble.  She  had  chanted
the  same  thing  a  year  earlier  when  she  discovered  the  baby-sitter  
had  taken  Eddie  to  the


public  pool  in  Derry  Park  one  stiflingly  hot  summer  day  —  this  had  
been  when  the  polio
scare  of  the  early  fifties  was  just  beginning  to  wind  down.  She  had 
 dragged  him  out  of  the
pool,  telling  him  he  must  never  do  that,  never, never,  and  all  the  
kids  had  looked  as  all  the
clerks and customers were looking now, and her breath had had that same sour 
tang.

She dragged him out of The Shoeboat, shouting at the clerks that she would see 
them all in
court  if  there  was   anything  wrong  with  her  boy.  Eddie's  terrified  
tears  had  continued  off  and
on for the rest of the morning, and his asthma had been particularly bad all 
day. That night he
had  lain  awake  for  hours  past  the  time  he  was  usually  asleep,  
wondering  exactly  what  cancer
was, if it was worse than polio, if it killed you, how long it took if it did, 
and how bad it hurt
before you died. He also wondered if he would go to hell afterward.

The threat had been serious, he knew that much.
She had been so scared. That was how he knew.
So terrified.

'Marty,' he said across this gulf of years, 'would you give me a kiss?'

She  kissed  him  and  hugged  him  so  tightly  while  she  was  doing  it  
that  the  bones  in  his  back
groaned. If we were in water, he thought, she'd drown us both.

'Don't be afraid,' he whispered in her ear.

'I can't help it!' she wailed.

'I  know,'  he  said,  and  realized  that,  even  though  she  was  hugging  
him  with  rib-breaking
tightness,  his  asthma  had  eased.  That  whistling  note  in  his  breathing 
 was  gone.  'I  know,
Marty.'

The taxi-driver honked again.

'Will you call?' she asked him tremulously.
'If I can.'

'Eddie, can't you please tell me what it is?'

And suppose he did? How far would it go toward setting her mind at rest?

Many, I got a call from Mike Hanlon tonight, and we talked for awhile, but 
everything we
said boiled down to two things. 'It's started again,' Mike said; 'Will you 
come?' Mike said.
And now I've got a fever, Marty, only it's a fever you can't damp down with 
aspirin, and I've
got a shortness of breath the goddamned aspirator won't touch, because that 
shortness of
breath isn't in my throat or my lungs — it is around my heart. I'll come back 
to you if I can,
Marty, but I feel like a man standing at the mouth of an old mine-shaft that is 
full of cave-ins
waiting to happen, standing there and saying goodbye to the daylight.

Yes — my, yes! That would surely set her mind at rest!
'No,' he said. 'I guess I can't tell you what it is.'

And before she  could say more, before she could begin again  (Eddie, get out 
of that taxi!
They  give  you  cancer!),  he  was  striding  away  from  her,  faster  and  
faster.  By  the  time  he  got
to the cab he was almost running.

She  was  still  standing  in  the  doorway  when  the  cab  backed  into  the  
street,  still  standing
there when they started for the city  —  a  big  black  woman-shadow cut out of 
the light spilling
from their house. He waved, and thought she raised her hand in return.

'Where we headed tonight, my friend?' the cabbie asked.

'Penn  Station,'  Eddie  said,  and  his  hand  relaxed  on  the  aspirator.  
His  asthma  had  gone  to
wherever it went to brood between its assaults on his bronchial tubes. He felt 
. . . almost well.

But  he  needed  the  aspirator  worse  than  ever  four  hours  later,  coming 
 out  of a light doze all
in  a  single  spasmodic  jerk  that  caused  the  fellow  in  the  business  
suit  across  the  way  to  lower
his paper and look at him with faintly apprehensive curiosity.

I'm  back,  Eddie!  the  asthma  yelled  gleefully.  I'm  back  and  oh,  I  
dunno,  this  time  I  just
might killya! Why not? Gotta do it sometime, you know! Can't fuck around with 
you forever!


Eddie's  chest  surged  and  pulled.  He  groped  for  the  aspirator,  found  
it,  pointed  it  down  his
throat,  and  pulled  the  trigger.  Then  he  sat  back  in  the  tall  Amtrak 
 seat,  shivering,  waiting  for
relief,  thinking  of  the  dream  from  which  he  had  just  awakened.  
Dream?  Christ,  if  that  was  all.
He was afraid it was more memory than dream. In it there had been a green light 
like the light
inside  a  shoe-store  X-ray  machine,  and  a  rotting  leper  had  pursued  a 
 screaming  boy  named
Eddie Kaspbrak through tunnels under the earth. He ran and ran

(he runs quite fast Coach Black had told his mother and he ran plenty fast with 
that rotting
thing after him oh yes you better believe it you bet your fur)

in  this  dream  where  he  was  eleven  years  old,  and  then  he  had  
smelled  something  like  the

death  of  time,  and  someone  lit  a  match  and  he  had  looked  down  and  
seen  the  decomposing
face  of  a  boy  named  Patrick  Hockstetter,  a  boy  who  had  disappeared  
in  July  of  1958,  and
there  were  worms  crawling  in  and  out  of  Patrick  Hockstetter's  cheeks, 
 and  that  gassy,  awful
smell  was  coming  from  inside  of   Patrick   Hockstetter,   and   in   that 
  dream   that   was   more
memory  than  dream  he  had  looked  to  one  side  and  had  seen  two  
schoolbooks  that  were  fat
with  moisture  and  overgrown  with  green  mold:  Roads  to  Everywhere,  and 
 Understanding
Our  America.  They  were  in  their  current  condition  because  it  was  a  
foul  wetness  down  here
('How I  Spent  My  Summer  Vacation,'  a  theme  by  Patrick  Hockstetter  — 
'I spent it dead in a
tunnel!  Moss  grew  on  my  books  and  they  swelled  up  to  the  size  of  
Sears  catalogues!').  Eddie
opened  his  mouth  to  scream  and  that  was  when  the  scabrous  fingers  
of  the  leper  clittered
around  his  cheek  and  plunged  themselves  into  his  mouth  and  that  was  
when  he  woke  up  with
that  back-snapping  jerk  to  find  himself  not  in  the  sewers  under  
Derry,  Maine,  but  in  an
Amtrak  club-car  near  the  head  of  a  train  speeding  across  Rhode  
Island  under  a  big  white
moon.

The  man  across  the  aisle  hesitated,  almost  thought  better  of  
speaking,  and  then  did.  'Are
you all right, sir?'

'Oh yes,' Eddie said. 'I fell asleep and had a bad dream. It got my asthma 
going.'

'I  see.'  The  paper  went  up  again.  Eddie  saw  it  was  the  paper  his  
mother  had  sometimes
referred to as The Jew York Times.

Eddie  looked  out  the  window  at  a  sleeping  landscape  litten  only  by  
the  fairy  moon.  Here

and  there  were  houses,  or  sometimes  clusters  of  them,  most  dark,  a  
few  showing lights. But
the lights seemed little, and falsely mocking, compared to the moon's 
ghost-glow.

He  thought  the  moon  talked  to  him,  he thought suddenly.  Henry Bowers. 
God, he was so
crazy.  He  wondered  where  Henry  Bowers  was  now.  Dead?  In  prison?  
Drifting  across  empty
plains  somewhere  in  the  middle  of  the  country  like  an  incurable  
virus,  sticking  up  Seven-
Elevens  in  the  deep  slumbrous  hours  between  one  and  four  in  the  
morning  or  maybe  killing
some  of  the  people  stupid  enough  to  slow  down  for  his  cocked thumb 
in order to transfer the
dollars in their wallets to his own?

Possible, possible.

In  a  state  asylum  somewhere?  Looking  up  at  this  moon,  which  was  
approaching  the  full?

Talking to it, listening to answers which only he could hear?

Eddie  considered  this  somehow  even  more  possible.  He  shivered.  I  am 
remembering my
boyhood at last,  he thought. I  am remembering how I spent my own summer 
vacation in that
dim  dead  year  of  1958.   He  sensed  that  now  he  could  fix  upon  
almost  any  scene  from  that
summer he wanted to, but he did not want to. Oh God if I could only forget it 
all again.

He  leaned  his  forehead  against  the  dirty  glass  of  the  window,  his  
aspirator  clasped  loosely
in one hand like a religious artifact, watching as the night flew apart around 
the train.

Going north, he thought, but that was wrong.

Not  going  north.  Because  it's  not  a  train;  it's  a  time  machine.  Not 
 north;  back.  Back  in
time.

He thought he heard the moon mutter.


Eddie Kaspbrak held his aspirator tightly and closed his eyes against sudden 
vertigo.

5

Beverly Rogan Takes a Whuppin

Tom  was  nearly  asleep  when  the  phone  rang.  He  struggled  halfway  up,  
leaning toward it, and

then  felt  one  of  Beverly's  breasts  press  against  his  shoulder  as  she 
 reached  over  him  ot  get it.

He  flopped  back  on  his  pillow,  wondering  dully  who  was  calling  on  
their  unlisted  home
phone  number  at  this  hour  of  the  night.  He  heard  Beverly  say  hello, 
 and  then  he  drifted  off
again. He had put away nearly three sixpacks during the baseball game, and he 
was shagged.

Then  Beverly's  voice,  sharp  and  curious  — 'Whaaat?'  —  drilled into his 
ear like an ice-pick
and he opened his eyes again. He tried to sit up and the phone cord dug into 
his thick neck.

'Get  that  fucking  thing  off  me,  Beverly,' he said, and she got up quickly 
and walked around
the bed, holding the phone cord up with tented fingers. Her hair was a deep 
red, and it flowed
over  her  nightgown  in  natural  waves  almost  to  her  waist.  Whore's  
hair.  Her  eyes  did  not
stutter to his face  to read the emotional weather there, and Tom Rogan didn't 
like that. He sat
up.  His  head  was  starting  to  ache.  Shit,  it  had  probably  already  
been  aching,  but  when  you
were asleep you didn't know it.

He  went  into  the  bathroom,  urinated  for  what  felt  lik e three hours, 
and then  decided that as

long  as  he  was  up  he  ought  to  get  another  beer  and  try  to  take  
the  curse  off  the  impending
hangover.

Passing back through the bedroom on his way to the stairs, a man in white boxer 
shorts that
flapped  like  sails  below  his  considerable  belly,  his  arms  like  slabs  
(he  looked  more  like  a
dock-walloper  than  the  president  and  general  manager  of  Beverly  
Fashions,  Inc.),  he  looked
over  his  shoulder  and  yelled  crossly:  'If  it's  that  bull  dyke  
Lesley,  tell  her  to  go  eat  out some
model and let us sleep!'

Beverly  glanced  up  briefly,  shook  her  head  to  indicate  it  wasn't  
Lesley,  and  then  looked
back  at  the  phone.  Tom  felt  the  muscles  at  the  back  of  his  neck  
tighten  up.  It  felt  like  a
dismissal.  Dismissed  by  Milady.  Mifuckinlady.  This  was  starting  to  
look  like  it  might  turn
into      a  situation.  It  might  be  that  Beverly  needed  a  short  
refresher  course  on  who  was  in
charge around here. It was possible. Sometimes she did. She was a slow learner.

He  went  downstairs  and  padded  along  the  hall  to  the  kitchen,  
absently  picking  the  seat  of
his shorts out of the crack of his ass, and opened the refrigerator. His 
reaching hand closed on
nothing  more  alcoholic  than  a  blue  Tupperware  dish  of  leftover  
noodles  Romanoff.  All  the
beer  was  gone .  Even  the  can  he  kept  way  in  the  back  (much  as  he  
kept  a  twenty-dollar bill
folded  up  behind  his  driver's  license  for  emergencies)  was  gone.  The  
game  had  gone  fourteen
innings, and all for nothing. The White Sox had lost. Bunch of candy-asses this 
year.

His  eyes  drifted  to  the  bottles  of  hard  stuff  on  the  glassed-in 
shelf over the kitchen bar and
for  a  moment  he  saw  himself  pouring  a  splash  of  Beam  over  a  single 
 ice-cube.  Then  he
walked  back  toward  the  stairs,  knowing  that  was  asking  for  even  more 
 trouble than his head
was currently in. He glanced at the face of the antique pendulum clock at the 
foot of the stairs
and  saw  it  was  past  midnight.  This  intelligence  did  nothing  to  
improve  his  temper,  which  was
never very good even at the best of times.

He  climbed  the  stairs  with  slow  deliberation,  aware   —  too  aware  — 
of how hard his heart
was  working.  Ka-boom,  ka-thud.  Ka-boom, ka-thud.  Ka-boom, ka-thud. It made 
him nervous
when  he  could  feel  his  heart  beating  in  his  ears  and  wrists  as  
well  as  in  his  chest. Sometimes
when  that  happened  he  would  imagine  it  not  as  a  squeezing  and  
loosening  organ  but  as  a  big
dial  on  the  left  side  of  his  chest  with  the  needle  edging  ominously 
 into  the  red  zone.  He  did
not like that shit; he did not need that shit. What he needed was a good 
night's sleep.


But the numb cunt he was married to was still on the phone.

'I understand that, Mike . . . . yes . . . yes, I am . . . I know . . . but . . 
. '
A longer pause.

'Bill Denbrough?' she exclaimed, and that ice-pick drilled into his ear again.

He  stood  outside  the  bedroom  door  until  he  got  his  breath  back.  Now 
 it  was  ka-thud, ka-
thud,  ka-thud  again:  the  booming  had  stopped.  He  briefly  imagined  the 
 needle  edging  out  of
the red and then willed the picture away. He was a man, for Christ's sake, and 
a damned good
one,  not  a  furnace  with  a  bad  thermostat.  He  was  in  great  shape.  
He  was  iron.  And  if  she
needed to relearn that, he would be happy to teach her.

He  started  in,  then  thought  better  of  it  and  stood  where  he was a 
moment longer, listening
to  her,  not  particularly  caring  about  who  she  was  talking  to  or  
what  she  said,  only  listening  to
the rising-falling tones of her voice. And what he felt was the old familiar 
dull rage.

He  had  met  her  in  a  downtown  Chicago  singles  bar  four  years  ago.  
Conversation had been
easy  enough,  because  they  both  worked  in  the  Standard  Brands  
Building,  and  knew  a  few  of
the  same  people.  Tom  worked  for  King  &  Landry,  Public  Relations,  on  
forty-two.  Beverly
Marsh  —  so  she  had  been  then  —  was  an  assistant  designer  at  Delia  
Fashions,  on  twelve.
Delia,  which  would  later  enjoy  a  modest  vogue  in  the  Midwest,  
catered  to  young  people  —
Delia  skirts  and  blouses  and  shawls  and  slacks  were  sold  largely  to  
what  Delia  Castleman
called  'youth-stores'  and  what  Tom  called  'headshops.'  Tom  Rogan  knew  
two  things  about
Beverly  Marsh  almost  at  once:  she  was  desirable  and  she  was  
vulnerable.  In  less  than  a
month  he  knew  a  third  as  well:  she  was  talented.  Very  talented.  In  
her  drawings  of  casual
dresses and blouses he saw a money-machine of almost scary potential.

Not  in  the  head-shops, though,  he thought, but did not say (at least not 
then).  No more bad
lighting,  no  more  knock-down prices, no more shitty displays somewhere in 
the back of the
store  between the dope paraphernalia and the rock -group tee-shins. Leave that 
shit for the
small-timers.

He  had  known  a  great  deal  about  her  before  she  knew  he  had  any  
real  interest  in  her,  and
that  was  just  the  way  Tom  wanted  it.  He  had  been  looking  for  
someone  like  Beverly  Marsh
all his life, and he moved in with the speed of a lion making a run at a slow 
antelope. Not that
her  vulnerability  showed  on  the  surface  —  you  looked  and  saw  a  
gorgeous  woman,  slim  but
abundantly  stacked.  Hips  weren't  so  great,  maybe,  but she had a great 
ass and the best set of
tits              he  had  ever  seen.  Tom  Rogan  was  a  tit-man, always had 
been, and tall girls almost always
had  disappointing  tits.  They  wore  thin  shirts  and  their  nipples  drove 
 you  crazy,  but  when  you
got   those   thin   shirts   off  you   discovered   that   nipples   were   
really   all   they   had.   The   tits
themselves  looked  like  the  pull-knobs  on  a  bureau  drawer.  'More  than  
a  handful's  wasted,'  his
college  roommate  had  been  fond  of  saying,  but  as  far  as  Tom  was  
concerned  his  college
roommate had been so full of shit he squeaked going into a turn.

Oh,  she  had  been  some  kind  of  fine-looking,  all  right,  with  that  
dynamite  body  and  that
gorgeous  fall  of  red  wavy  hair.  But  she  was  weak  .  .  .  weak  
somehow.  It  was  as  if  she  was
sending  out  radio  signals  which  only  he  could  receive.  You  could  
point  to  certain  things   —
how much she smoked (but he had almost cured her of that), the restless way her 
eyes moved,
never  quite  meeting  the  eyes  of  whoever  was  talking  to  her,  only  
touching  them  from  time  to
time  and  then  leaping  nimbly  away;  her  habit  of  lightly  rubbing  her  
elbows  when  she  was
nervous;  the  look  of  her  fingernails,  which  were  kept  neat  but  
brutally  short.  Tom  noticed  this
latter  the  first  time  he  met  her.  She  picked  up  her  glass  of  white 
 wine,  he saw her nails, and
thought: She keeps them short like that because she bites them.

Lions  may  not  think,  at  least  not  the  way  people  think  .  .  .  but  
they  see.  And  when
antelopes  start  away  from  a  waterhole,  alerted  by  that  dusty-rug  
scent  of  approaching death,
the cats can observe which one falls to the rear of the pack, maybe because it 
has a lame leg,
maybe  because  it  is  just  naturally  slower  .  .  .  or  maybe  because  
its  sense  of  danger  is  less


developed.  And  it  might  even  be  possible  that  some  antelopes  —  and 
some women  —  want

to be brought down.

Suddenly he heard a sound that jerked him rudely out of these memories  — the 
snap of her
cigarette lighter.

The   dull   rage   came   again.   His   stomach   filled   with   a   heat   
which   was   not   entirely
unpleasant.   Smoking.   She   was   smoking.   They   had   had   a   few   of 
  Tom   Rogan's   Special
Seminars  on  the  subject.  And  here  she  was,  doing  it  again.  She  was  
a  slow  learner,  all  right,
but a good teacher is at his best with slow learners.

'Yes,'  she  said  now.  'Uh-huh. All right. Yes . . . ' She listened, then 
uttered a strange, jagged

laugh he had never heard before. 'Two things, since you ask  — reserve me a 
room and say me
a prayer. Yes, okay . . . uh-huh . . . me too. Goodnight.'

She  was  hanging  up  as  he  came  in.  He  meant  to  come  in  hard,  
yelling  at  her  to  put  it  out,
put it out  now, RIGHT NOW!,  but when he saw her the words died in his throat. 
He had seen
her  like  this  before,  but  only  two  or  three  times.  Once  before  
their  first  big  show,  once  before
the  first  private  preview  showing  for  national  buyers,  and  once  when  
they  had  gone  to  New
York for the International Design Awards.

She  was  moving  across  the  bedroom  in  long  strides,  the  white  lace  
nightgown  molded  to
her  body,  the  cigarette  clamped  between  her  front  teeth  (God  he  
hated  the  way  she  looked
with  a  butt  in  her  mouth)  sending  back  a  little  white  riband  over  
her  left  shoulder  like  smoke
from a locomotive's stack.

But  it  was  her  face  that  really  gave  him  pause,  that  caused  the  
planned  shout  to  die  in  his
throat. His heart lurched  —  k a-BAMP!  —  and he winced, telling himself that 
what he felt was
not fear but only surprise at finding her this way.

She  was  a  woman  who  really  came  alive  all  the  way  only  when  the  
rhythm  of  her  work
spiked  toward  a  climax.  Each  of  those  remembered  occasions  had  of  
course  been  career-
related.  At  those  tunes  he  had  seen  a  different  woman  from  the  one  
he  knew  so  well  — a
woman  who  fucked  up  his  sensitive  fear-radar  with  wild  bursts  of  
static.  The  woman  who
came out in times of stress was strong but high-strung, fearless but 
unpredictable.

There  was  lots  of  color  in  her  cheeks  now,  a  natural  blush  high  on 
 her  cheekbones.  Her

eyes  were  wide  and  sparkly,  not  a  trace  of  sleep  left  in  them.  Her 
 hair  flowed  and  streamed.
And  .  .  .  oh,  looky  here,  friends  and  neighbors!  Oh  you  just  looky 
 right  here!  Is she taking a
suitcase out of the closet? A suitcase? By God, she is!

Reserve me a room . . . say me a prayer.

Well,  she  wasn't  going  to  need  a  room  in  any  hotel,  not  in  the  
foreseeable future, because
little  Beverly  Rogan  was  going  to  be  staying  right  here  at  home,  
thank  you  very  much,  and
taking her meals standing up for the next three or four days.

But she very well might need a prayer or two before he was through with her.

She tossed the suitcase on the foot of the bed and then went to her bureau. She 
opened the
top  drawer  and  pulled  out  two  pairs  of  jeans  and  a  pair  of  cords.  
Tossed  them  into  the
suitcase.  Back  to  the  bureau,  cigarette  streaming  smoke  over  her  
shoulder.  She  grabbed  a
sweater,  a  couple  of  tee-shirts, one of the old Ship 'n Shore blouses that 
she looked so stupid
in  but  refused  to  give  up.  Whoever  had  called  her  sure  hadn't  been  
a  jet-setter. This was dull
stuff, strictly Jackie -Kennedy-Hyannisport-weekend  stuff.

Not  that  he  cared  about  who  had  called  her  or  where  she  thought  
she  was  going,  since  she
wasn't  going  anywhere.  Those  were  not  the  things  which  pecked  
steadily  at  his  mind,  dull  and
achy from too much beer and not enough sleep.

It was that cigarette.

Supposedly  she  had  thrown  them  all  out.  But  she  had  held  out  on  
him  —  the  proof  was
clamped  between  her  teeth  right  now.  And  because  she  still  had  not  
noticed  him  standing  in


the   doorway,   he   allowed   himself   the   pleasure   of   remembering   
the   two  nights  which  had
assured him of his complete control over her.

I  don't  want  you  to  smoke  around  me  anymore,  he told her as they 
headed home from a
party in Lake Forest. October, that had been.  I have to choke that shit down 
at parties and at
the office, but I don't have to choke it down when I'm with you. You know what 
it's like? I'm
going to tell you the truth  — it's unpleasant but it's the truth. Ifs like 
having to eat someone
else's snot.

He  thought  this  would  bring  some  faint  spark  of  protest, but she had 
only looked at him in
her  shy,  wanting-to-please  way.  Her  voice  had  been  low  and  meek  and  
obedient.   All tight,
Tom.

Pitch it then.

She pitched it. Tom had been in a good humor for the rest of that night.

A  few  weeks  later,  coming  out  of  a  movie,  she  unthinkingly  lit  a  
cigarette  in  the  lobby  and
puffed it as they walked across the parking lot to the car. It had been a 
bitter November night,
the  wind  chopping  like  a  maniac  at  any  exposed  square  inch  of  flesh 
 it  could  find.  Tom
remembered  he  had  been  able  to  smell  the  lake,  as  you  sometimes  
could  on  cold  nights   — a
flat      smell  that  was  both  fishy  and  somehow  empty.  He  let  her  
smoke  the  cigarette.  He  even
opened her door for her when they got to the car. He got in behind the wheel, 
closed his own
door, and then said: Bev?

She  took  the  cigarette  out  of  her  mouth,  turned  toward  him,  
inquiring,  and  he  unloaded  on
her  pretty  good,  his  hard  open  hand  stroking  across  her  cheek  hard  
enough  to  make  his  palm
tingle,  hard  enough  to  rock  her  head  back  against  the  headrest.  Her  
eyes  widened  with
surprise  and  pain  .  .  .  and  something  else  as  well.  Her  own  hand  
flew  to  her  cheek  to
investigate the warmth and tingling numbness there. She cried out Owww! Tom!

He  looked  at  her,  eyes  narrowed,  mouth  smiling  casually,  completely  
alive,  ready  to  see
what  would  come  next,  how  she  would  react.  His  cock  was  stiffening  
in  his  pants,  but  he
barely  noticed.  That  was  for  later.  For  now,  school  was  in  session.  
He  replayed  what  had  just
happened.  Her  face.  What  had  that  third  expression  been,  there  for  a 
 bare  instant  and  then
gone? First the surprise. Then the pain. Then the

(nostalgia)

look of a memory . . . of some memory. It had only been for a moment. He didn't 
think she
even knew it had been there, on her face or in her mind.

Now: now. It would all be in the first thing she didn't say. He knew that as 
well as his own
name.

It wasn't You son of a bitch!

It wasn't See you later, Macho City.

It wasn't We're through, Tom.

She  only  looked  at  him  with  her  wounded,  brimming  hazel  eyes  and  
said:   Why did you do
that? Then she tried to say something else and burst into tears instead.

Throw it out.

What?  What,  Tom?   Her  make-up  was  running  down  her  face  in  muddy  
tracks.  He  didn't
mind  that.  He  kind  of  liked  seeing  her  that  way.  It  was  messy,  but 
 there  was  something  sexy
about it, too. Slutty. Kind of exciting.

The cigarette. Throw it out.
Realization dawning. And with it, guilt.
I        just forgot! she cried. That's all!

Throw it out, Bev, or you're going to get another shot.

She  rolled  the  window  down  and  pitched  the  cigarette.  Then  she  
turned  back  to  him,  her
face pale and scared and somehow serene.


You can't . . . you aren't supposed to hit me. That's a bad basis for a . . . a 
. . .  a lasting
relationship.  She  was  trying  to  find  a  tone,  an  adult  rhythm  of  
speech,  and  failing.  He  had
regressed her. He was in this car with a child. Voluptuous and sexy as hell, 
but a child.

Can't and aren't are two different things,  keed, he said. He kept his voice 
calm but inside
he   was   jittering   and   jiving.  And   I'll   be   the   one   to   decide 
  what   constitutes   a   lasting
relationship and what doesn't. If you can live with that, fine. If you can't, 
you can take a walk.
I      won't stop you. I might kick you once in the ass as a going-away 
present, but I won't stop
you. It's a free country. What more can I say?

Maybe  you've  already  said  enough,   she  whispered,  and  he  hit  her  
again,  harder  than  the

first  time,  because  no  broad  was  ever  going  to  smart  off  to  Tom  
Rogan.  He  would  pop  the
Queen of England if she cracked smart to him.

Her  cheek  banged  the  padded  dashboard.  Her  hand  groped  for  the  
doorhandle and then fell
away.  She  only  crouched  in  the  corner  like  a  rabbit,  one  hand  over  
her  mouth, her eyes large
and  wet  and  frightened.  Tom  looked  at  her  for  a  moment  and  then  he 
 got  out  and  walked
around  the  back  of  the  car.  He opened  her  door.  His  breath  was  
smoke  in  the  black,  windy
November air and the smell of the lake was very clear.

You want to get out, Bev? I saw you reaching for the doorhandle, so I guess you 
must want
to get out. Okay. That's all right. I asked you to do something and you said 
you would. Then
you didn't. So you want to get out? Come on. Get out. What the fuck, right? Get 
out. You want
to get out?

No, she whispered.

What? I can't hear you.

No, I don't want to get out, she said a little louder.

What — those cigarettes giving you emphysema? If you can't talk, I'll get you a 
fucking
megaphone. This is your last chance, Beverly. You speak up so I can hear you: 
do you want
to get out of this car or do you want to come back with me?

Want  to  come  back  with  you,  she said, and clasped her hands on her skirt 
like a little girl.

She wouldn't look at him. Tears slipped down her cheeks.

All right,  he said. Fine. But first you say this for me, Bev. You say, 'I 
forgot about smoking
in front of you, Tom.'

Now  she  looked  at  him,  her  eyes  wounded,  pleading,  inarticulate.  You  
can  make  me  do

this, her eyes said, but please don't. Don't, I love you, can't it be over?

No — it could not. Because that was not the bottom of her wanting, and both of 
them knew


it.

Say it.

I forgot about smoking in front of you, Tom.
Good. Now say 'I'm sorry.'

I'm sorry, she repeated dully.

The  cigarette  lay  smoking  on  the  pavement  like  a  cut  piece  of  fuse. 
 People  leaving  the

theater  glanced  over  at  them,  the  man  standing  by  the  open  passenger 
 door  of  a  late-model,
fade-into-the-woodwork  Vega,  the  woman  sitting  inside,  her  hands  
clasped  primly  in  her  lap,
her head down, the domelight outlining the soft fall of her hair in gold.

He crushed the cigarette out. He smeared it against the blacktop.

Now say: I’ll never do it again without your permission.'
I'll never . . .

Her voice began to hitch.

. . . never . . . n-n-n —
Say it, Bev.

. . . never d-do it again. Without your p-permission.


So  he  had  slammed  the  door  and  gone  back  around  to  the  driver's  
seat.  He  got  behind  the
wheel  and  drove  them  back  to  his  downtown  apartment.  Neither  of  them 
 said  a  word.  Hah⁰
the  relationship  had  been  set  in  the  parking  lot;  the  second  half  
was  set  forty  minutes  later,  in
Tom's bed.

She  didn't  want  to  make  love,  she  said.  He  saw  a  different  truth  
in  her  eyes and the strutty
cock  of  her  legs,  however,  and  when  he  got  her  blouse  off  her  
nipples  had  been  rock  hard.
She  moaned  when  he  brushed  them,  and  cried  out  softly  when  he  
suckled  first  one  and  then
the  other,  kneading  them  restlessly  as  he  did  so.  She  grabbed  his  
hand  and  thrust  it  between
her legs.

I thought you didn't want to,  he said, and she had turned her face away . . . 
but she did not
let go of his hand, and the rocking motion of her hips actually speeded up.

He  pushed  her  back  on  the  bed  .  . . and now he was gentle, not ripping 
her underwear but
removing it with a careful consideration that was almost prissy.

Sliding into her was like sliding into some exquisite oil.

He  moved  with  her,  using  her  but  letting  her  use  him  as  well,  and  
she came the first time
almost  at  once,  crying  out  and  digging  her  nails  into  his  back.  
Then  they  rocked  together  in
long,  slow  strokes  and  somewhere  in  there  he  thought  she  came  again. 
 Tom  would  get  close,
and  then  he  would  think  of  White  Sox  batting  averages or who was 
trying to undercut him for
the  Chesley  account  at  work  and  he  would  be  okay  again.  Then  she  
began  to  speed  up,  her
rhythm  finally  dissolving  into  an  excited  bucking.  He  looked  at  her  
face,  the  raccoon  ringlets
of  mascara,  the  smeared  lipstick,  and  he  felt  himself  suddenly  
shooting  deliriously  toward  the
edge.

She  jerked  her  hips  up  harder  and  harder  —  there  had  been  no  
beergut  between  them  in
those days and their bellies clapped hands in a quickening beat.

Near the end she screamed and then bit his shoulder with her small, even teeth.

How many times did you come? he asked her after they had showered.

She  turned  her  face  away,  and  when  she  spoke  her  voice  was  so  low  
he  almost  couldn't
hear her. That isn't something you're supposed to ask.

No? Who told you that? Misterogers?

He took her face in one hand, thumb pressing deep into one cheek, fingers 
pressing into the
other, palm cupping her chin in between.

You talk to Tom, he said. You hear me, Bev? Talk to Papa.
Three, she said reluctantly.

Good, he said. You can have a cigarette.

She  looked  at  him  distrustfully,  her  red  hair  spread  over  the  
pillows,  wearing  nothing  but  a
pair  of  hip-hugger  panties.  Just  looking  at  her  that  way  got  his  
motor  turning  over  again. He
nodded.

Go on, he said. That's all right.

They  had  been  married  in  a  civil  ceremony  three  months  later.  Two  
of  his  friends  had
come;  the  only  friend  of  hers  to  attend  had  been  Kay  McCall,  whom  
Tom  called  'that  titsy
women's-lib bitch.'

All  of  these  memories  went  through  Tom's  mind  in  a  space  of  
seconds,  like  a  speeded-up

piece of film, as he stood in the doorway watching her. She had gone on to the 
bottom drawer
of  what  she  sometimes  called  her  'weekend  bureau,'  and  now  she  was  
tossing  underwear into
the  suitcase  —  not  the  sort  of  stuff  he  liked,  the  slippery  satins  
and  smooth  silks;  this  was
cotton  stuff,  little-girl  stuff,  most  of  it  faded  and  with  little  
puffs  of  popped  elastic  on  the
waistbands.  A  cotton  nightie  that  looked  like  something  out  of  Little 
 House  on  the  Prairie.
She  poked in the back of this bottom drawer to see what else might be lurking 
in there.

Tom  Rogan,  meanwhile,  moved  across  the  shag  rug  toward  his  wardrobe.  
His  feet  were

bare  and  his  passage  noiseless  as  a  puff  of  breeze.  It  was  the  
cigarette.  That  was  what  had


really  gotten  him  mad.  It  had  been  a  long  time  since  she  had  
forgotten  that  first  lesson.  There
had been other lessons to learn since, a great many, and there had been hot 
days when she had
worn  long-sleeved  blouses  or  even  cardigan  sweaters  buttoned  all  the  
way  to  the  neck.  Gray
days  when  she  had  worn  sunglasses.  But  that  first  lesson  had  been  
so  sudden  and  fundamental

—

He  had  forgotten  the  telephone  call  that  had  wakened  him  out  of  his 
 deepening  sleep.  It
was  the  cigarette.  If  she  was  smoking  now,  then  she  had  forgotten  
Tom  Rogan.  Temporarily,
of  course,  only  temporarily,  but  even  temporarily  was  too  damned  
long.  What  might  have
caused her to forget didn't matter. Such things were not to happen in his house 
for any reason.

There  was  a  wide  black  strip  of  leather  hanging  from  a  hook  inside  
the  closet  door.  There
was  no  buckle  on  it;  he  had  removed  that  long  ago.  It  was  doubled  
over  at  one  end  where  a
buckle  would  have  gone,  and  this  doubled-over  section  formed  a  loop  
into  which  Tom  Rogan
now slipped his hand.

Tom,  you  been  bad!  his  mother  had  sometimes  said   —  well,  
'sometimes'  was  maybe  not
such a good word; maybe 'often' would have been a better one. You come here, 
Tommy! I got
to  give  you  a  whuppin.  His  life  as  a  child  had  been  punctuated  by  
whuppins.  He  had  finally
escaped  to  Wichita  State  College,  but  apparently  there  was  no  such  
thing  as  a  complete
escape,  because  he  continued  to  hear  her  voice  in  dreams:  Come  here, 
 Tommy.  I  got  to  give
you a whuppin. Whuppin . . .

He  had  been  the  eldest  of  four.  Three  months  after  the  youngest  had 
 been  born,  Ralph
Rogan had died  —  well,  'died'  was  maybe  not  such  a  good  word;  maybe  
'committed  suicide'
would  have  been  a  better  way  to  put  it,  since  he  had  poured a 
generous quantity of lye into a
tumbler  of  gin  and  quaffed  this  devil's  brew  while  sitting  on  the  
bathroom  hopper.  Mrs  Rogan
had  found  work  at  the  Ford  plant.  Tom,  although  only  eleven,  became  
the  man  of  the  family.
And  if  he  screwed  up  —  if  the  baby  shat  her  didies  after  the  
sitter  went  home  and  the  mess
was  still  in  them  when  Mom  got  home  .  .  .  if  he  forgot  to  cross  
Megan  on  the  Broad  Street
corner after her nursery school got out and that nosy Mrs Gant saw . . . if he 
happened to be
watching  American  Bandstand  while  Joey  made  a  mess  in  the  kitchen  .  
.  .  if  any  of  those
things  or  a  thousand  others  happened  .  .  .  then,  after  the  smaller  
children  were  in  bed,  the
spanking  stick  would  come  out  and  she  would  call  the  invocation:  
Come  here,  Tommy.  I  got
to give you a whuppin.

Better to be the whupper than the whupped.

If he had learned nothing else on the great toll-road of life, he had learned 
that.

So he flipped the loose end of the belt over once and pulled the loop snug. 
Then he closed
his  fist  over  it.  It  felt  good.  It  made  him  feel  like  a  grownup.  
The  strip  of  leather  hung  from
his clenched fist like a dead blacksnake. His headache was gone.

She  had  found  that  one  last  thing  in  the  back  of  the  drawer:  an  
old  white  cotton  bra  with
gunshell   cups.   The   thought   that   this   early-morning   call   might   
have   been   from   a   lover
surfaced  briefly  in  his  mind  and  then  sank  again.  That  was  
ridiculous.  A  woman  going  away
to  meet  her  lover  did  not  pack  her  faded  Ship  'n  Shore  blouses  and 
 her  cotton  K-Mart undies
with the pops and snarls in the elastic. Also, she wouldn't dare.

'Beverly,'  he  said  softly,  and  she  turned  at  once,  startled,  her  
eyes  wide,  her  long  hair

swinging.

The  belt  hesitated  .  .  .  dropped  a  little.  He  stared  at  her,  
feeling  that  little  bloom  of
uneasiness  again.  Yes,  she  had  looked  this  way  before  the  big  shows, 
 and  then  he  hadn't
gotten  in  her  way,  understanding  that  she  was  so  filled  with  a  
mixture  of  fear  and  competitive
aggressiveness  that  it  was  as  if  her  head  was  full  of  illuminating  
gas:  a  single  spark  and  she
would  explode.  She  had  seen  the  shows  not  as  a  chance  to  split  off 
 from  Delia  Fashions,  to
make  a  living-or even a fortune  —  on her own. If that had been all, she 
would have been fine.
But  if  that  were  all,  she  also  would  not  have  been  so  ungodly  
talented.  She  had  seen  those


shows  as  a  kind  of  super-exam  on  which  she  would  be  graded  by  
fierce  teachers.  What  she
saw  on  those  occasions  was  some  creature  without  a  face.  It  had  no  
face,  but  it  did  have  a
name — Authority.

All  of  that  wide-eyed  nerviness  was  on  her  face  now.  But  not  just  
there;  it  was  all  around
her,  an  aura  that  seemed  almost  visible,  a  high-tension  charge  which  
made  her  suddenly  both
more  alluring  and  more  dangerous  than  she  had  seemed  to  him  in  
years.  He  was  afraid
because  she  was  here,  all  here,  the  essential  she as apart from the she 
Tom Rogan wanted her
to    be, the she he had made.

Beverly  looked  shocked  and  frightened.  She  also  looked  almost  madly  
exhilarated.  Her

cheeks  glowed  with  hectic  color,  yet  there  were  stark  white  patches  
below  her  lower  lids
which   looked   almost   like   a   second   pair   of   eyes.   Her   
forehead   glowed   with   a   creamy
resonance.

And  the  cigarette  was  still  jutting  out  of  her  mouth,  now  at  a  
slight  up-angle,  as  if  she
thought she  was  goddam  Franklin  Delano  Roosevelt.  The  cigarette!  Just  
looking  at  it  caused
dull   fury   to   wash   over   him   again   in   a   green   wave.   
Faintly,   far   back   in   his   mind,   he
remembered  her  saying  something  to  him  one  night  out  of  the  dark,  
speaking  in  a  dull  and
listless voice: Someday you're going to kill me, Tom. Do you know that? Someday 
you're just
going to go too far and that will be the end. You'll snap.

He had answered: You do it my way, Bev, and that day will never come.

Now, before the rage blotted out everything, he wondered if that day hadn't 
come after all.

The  cigarette.  Never  mind  the  call,  the  packing,  the  weird  look  on  
her  face.  They  would
deal  with  the  cigarette.  Then  he  would  fuck  her.  Then  they  could  
discuss  the  rest.  By  then  it
might even seem important.

'Tom,' she said. 'Tom, I have to — '

'You're  smoking,'  he  said.  His  voice  seemed  to  come  from  a  distance, 
 as  if  over  a  pretty
good radio. 'Looks like you forgot, babe. Where you been hiding them?'

'Look,  I'll  put  it  out,'  she  said, and went to the bathroom door. She 
flipped the cigarette  —
even  from  here  he  could  see  the  teeth-marks driven deep into the filter  
— into the bowl of the
John. Fsssss.  She came back out. 'Tom, that was an old friend. An old  old 
friend. I have to —
'

'Shut  up,  that's  what  you  have  to  do!'  he  shouted  at  her.  'Just  
shut  up!'  But  the  fear  he
wanted to see  — the fear of him  —  was not on her face. There was fear, but 
it had come out
of  the  telephone,  and  fear  was  not  supposed  to  come  to  Beverly  from 
 that direction. It was
almost  as  if  she  didn't  see  the  belt,  didn't  see  him,  and  Tom  felt 
 a  trickle  of  unease.  Was  he
here? It was a stupid question, but was he?

This  question  was  so  terrible  and  so  elemental  that  for  a  moment  he 
 felt  in  danger  of
coming   completely   unwrapped   from   the   root   of   himself   and   just 
  floating   off   like   a
tumbleweed  in  a  high  breeze.  Then  he  caught  hold  of  himself.  He  was 
 here,  all  right,  and  that
was  quite  enough  fucking  psycho-babble  for  one  night.  He  was  here,  
he  was  Tom  Rogan,
Tom  by-God  Rogan,  and  if  this  dippy  cunt  didn't  straighten  up  and  
fly  right  in  the  next  thirty
seconds  or  so,  she  was  going  to  look  like  she  got  pushed  out  of  a 
 fast-moving boxcar by a
mean railroad dick.

'Got to give you a whuppin,' he said. 'Sorry about that, babe.'

He had seen that mixture of fear and aggressiveness before, yes. Now for the 
first time ever
it flashed out at him.

'Put that thing down,' she said. 'I have to get out to O'Hare as fast as I 
can.'

Are you here, Tom? Are you?

He  pushed  the  thought  away.  The  strip  of  leather  which  had  once  
been  a  belt  swung  slowly
before him like a pendulum. His eyes flickered and then held fast to her face.


'Listen  to  me,  Tom.  There's  been  some  trouble  back  in  my  home  town. 
 Very  bad  trouble. I
had a friend in those days. I guess he would have been my boyfriend, except we 
weren't quite
old  enough  for  that.  He  was  only  an  eleven-year-old  kid  with  a  bad  
stutter  back  then.  He's  a
novelist now. You even read one of his books, I think . . . The Black Rapids?'

She  searched  his  face  but  his  face  gave  no  sign.  There  was  only  
the  belt  penduluming  back
and  forth,  back  and  forth.  He  stood  with  his  head  lowered  and  his  
stocky  legs  slightly  apart.
Then  she  ran  her  hand  restlessly  through  her  hair  —  distractedly  —  
as  if  she  had  many
important  things  to  think  of  and  hadn't  seen  the  belt  at  all,  and  
that  haunting,  awful  question
resurfaced in his head again: Are you there? Are you sure?

'That  book  laid  around  here  for  weeks  and  I  never  made  the  
connection. Maybe I should
have,  but  we're  all  older  and  I  haven't  even  thought  about  Derry  in 
 a  long,  long  time.
Anyway,  Bill  had  a  brother,  George,  and  George  was  killed  before  I  
really  knew  Bill.  He  was
murdered. And then, the next summer — '

But Tom had ilstened  to  enough  craziness  from  within  and  from  without.  
He  moved  in  on
her fast, cocking his right arm back over his shoulder like a man about to 
throw a javelin. The
belt  hissed  a  path  through  the  air.  Beverly  saw  it  coming  and  tried 
 to  duck  away,  but  her right
shoulder struck the bathroom doorway and there was a meaty  whapl as the belt 
struck her left
forearm, leaving a red weal.

'Gonna  whup  you,'  Tom  repeated.  His  voice  was  sane,  even  regretful,  
but  his  teeth  showed
in  a  white  and  frozen  smile.  He   wanted  to  see  that  look  in  her  
eyes,  that  look  of  fear  and
terror  and  shame,  that  look  that  said   Yes  you're  right  I  deserved  
it,   that look that said  Yes
you're there all right, I feel your presence.  Then love could come back, and 
that was right and
good,  because he  did  love her. They could even have a discussion, if she 
wanted it, of exactly
who  had  called  and  what  all  this  was  about.  But  that  must  come  
later.  For  now,  school  was  in
session. The old one-two. First the whuppin, then the fuckin.

'Sorry, babe.'

'Tom, don't do th — '

He swung the belt sidearm and saw it lick around her hip. There was a 
satisfying snap as it
finished on her buttock. And . . .

And Jesus, she was grabbing at it! She was grabbing at the belt!

For  a  moment  Tom  Rogan was so astounded by this unexpected act of 
insubordination that
he almost lost his punisher,  would  have lost it except for the loop, which 
was tucked securely
into his fist.

He jerked it back.

'Don't you  ever  try  to  grab  something  away  from  me,' he said hoarsely. 
'You hear me? You
ever do that again and you'll spend a month pissing raspberry juice.'

'Tom,  stop  it,'  she  said,  and  her  very  tone  infuriated him  —  she  
sounded  like  a  playground
monitor  talking  down  to  a  tantrumy  six-year-old. 'I  have  to  go.  This  
is  no  joke.  People  are
dead, and I made a promise a long time ago — '

Tom  heard  little  of  this.  He  bellowed  and  ran  at  her  with  his  head 
 down,  the  belt  swinging
blindly.  He  hit  her  with  it,  driving  her  away  from  the  doorway  and  
along  the bedroom wall.
He  cocked  his  arm  back,  hit  her,  cocked  his  arm  back,  hit  her,  
cocked  his  arm  back,  hit  her.
Later  that  morning  he  would  not  be  able  to  raise  the  arm  above  eye 
 level  until  he  had
swallowed  three  codeine  tablets,  but  for  now  he  was  aware  of  nothing 
 but  the  fact  that  she
was  defying  him. She had not only been smoking,  she had tried to grab the 
belt away from
him,  and  oh  folks,  oh  friends  and  neighbors,  she  had  asked  for  it,  
and  he  would  testify  before
the throne of God Almighty that she was going to get it.

He drove her along the wall, swinging the belt, raining blows on her. Her hands 
were up to
protect  her  face,  but  he  had  a  clear  shot  at  the  rest  of  her.  The 
 belt  made  thick  bull  whip
cracks  in  the  quiet  room.  But  she  did  not  scream,  as  she sometimes 
did, and she did not beg


him  to  stop,  as  she  usually  did.  Worst  of  all,  she  did  not  cry,  
as  she always  did. The only
sounds were the belt and their breathing, his heavy and hoarse, hers quick and 
light.

She  broke  for  the  bed  and  the  vanity  table  on  her  side  of  it.  Her 
 shoulders  were  red  from
the belt's blows. Her hair streamed fire. He lumbered after her, slower but 
big, very big  — he
had  played  squash  until  he  had  popped  an  Achilles  tendon  two  years  
ago,  and  since  then  his
weight had gotten out of hand a little bit (or maybe 'a lot' would have been a 
better way to put
it),  but  the  muscle  was  still  there,  firm  cordage  sheathed  in  the  
fat.  Still,  he  was  a  little
alarmed at how out of breath he was.

She  reached  the  vanity  and  he  thought  she would crouch there, or maybe 
try to crawl under

it. Instead she groped . . . turned . . . and suddenly the air was full of 
flying missiles. She was
throwing  cosmetics  at  him.  A  bottle  of  Chantilly  struck  him  squarely  
between  the  nipples,  fell
to his feet, shattered. He was suddenly enveloped in the gagging scent of 
flowers.

'Quit it!' he roared. 'Quit it, you bitch!'

Instead  of  quitting  it,  her  hands  flew  along  the  vanity's  littered  
glass  top,  grabbing  whatever
they  found,  throwing  it.  He  groped  at  his  chest  where  the  bottle  of 
 Chantilly  had  struck  him,
unable  to  believe  she  had  hit  him  with  something,  even  as  other  
objects  flew  around  him.  The
bottle's  glass  stopper  had  cut  him.  It  was  not  much  of  a  cut,  
little  more  than  a  triangular
scratch, but  was  there  a  certain  red-haired lady who was going to see the 
sun come up from a
hospital bed? Oh yes, there was. A certain lady who —

A jar of cream struck him above the right eyebrow with sudden, cracking force. 
He heard a
dull  thud  seemingly  inside  his  head.  White  light  exploded  over  that  
eye's  field  of  vision  and
he  fell  back  a  step,  mouth  dropping  open.  Now  a  tube  of  Nivea  
cream  struck  his  belly  with  a
small  slapping  sound  and  she  was —  was  she?  was  it  possible?  —  yes! 
She was  yelling  at
him!

'I'm  going  to  the  airport,  you  son  of  a  bitch!  Do  you  hear  me?  I  
have  business  and  I'm
going! You want to get out of my way because I'M GOING!'

Blood ran into his right eye, stinging and hot. He knuckled it away.

He  stood  there  for  a  moment,  staring at her as if he had never seen her 
before. In a way he
never  had.  Her  breasts  heaved  rapidly.  Her  face,  all  flush  and  livid 
 pallor,  blazed.  Her  lips
were  drawn  back  from  her  teeth  in  a  snarl.  She  had,  however,  
denuded  the  top  of  the  vanity
table.  The  missile  silo  was  empty.  He  could  still  read  the  fear  in  
her  eyes  .  .  .  but  it  was  still
not fear of him.

'You  put  those  clothes  back,'  he  said,  struggling  not  to  pant  as  he 
 spoke.  That  would  not
sound good. That would sound weak. 'Then you put the suitcase back and get into 
bed. And if
you do those things, maybe I won't beat you up too bad. Maybe you'll be able to 
go out of the
house in two days instead of two weeks.'

'Tom,  listen  to  me.'  She  spoke  slowly.  Her  gaze  was  very  clear.  'If 
 you  come  near  me
again, I'll kill you. Do you understand that, you tub of guts? I'll kill you.'

And  suddenly  —  maybe  it  was  because  of  the  utter  loathing  on  her  
face,  the  contempt,

maybe  because  she  had  called  him  a  tub  of  guts,  or  maybe  only  
because  of  the  rebellious  way
her breasts rose and fell  —  the  fear  was  suffocating  him.  It  was  not  
a  bud  or  a  bloom  but  a
whole goddam garden, the fear, the horrible fear that he was not here.

Tom  Rogan  rushed  at  his  wife,  not  bellowing  this  time.  He  came  as  
silently  as  a  torpedo
cutting  through  the  water.  His  intent  now  was  probably  not  merely  to 
 beat  and  subjugate  but
to    do to her what she had so rashly said she would do to him.

He  thought  she  would  run.  Probably  for  the  bathroom.  Maybe  for  the  
stairs.  Instead,  she
stood  her  ground.  Her  hip  whacked  the  wall  as  she  threw  her  weight  
against  the  vanity  table,
pushing  it  up  and  toward  him,  ripping  two  fingernails  down  to  the  
quick  when  the  sweat  on
her palms caused her hands to slip.


For  a  moment  the  table  tottered  on  an  angle  and  then  she  shoved  
herself  forward  again.
The   vanity   waltzed   on   one   leg,   mirror   catching   the   light   
and   reflecting   a   brief   swimmy
aquarium  shadow  across  the  ceiling,  and  then  it  tilted  forward  and  
outward.  Its  leading  edge
slammed  into  Tom's  upper  thighs  and  knocked  him  over.  There  was  a  
musical  jingle  as
bottles  tipped  over  and  shattered  inside.  He  saw  the  mirror  strike  
the  floor  on  his  left  and
threw  an  arm  up  to  shield  his  eyes,  losing  the  belt.  Glass  coughed  
across  the  floor,  silver  on
the back. He felt some of it sting him, drawing blood.

Now  she  was  crying,  her  breath  coming  in  high,  screamy  sobs.  Time  
after  time  she  had
seen  herself  leaving  him,  leaving  Tom's  tyranny  as  she  had  left  that 
 of  her  father,  stealing
away  in  the  night,  bags  piled  in  the  trunk  of  her  Cutlass.  She  was 
 not  a  stupid  woman,
certainly  not  stupid  enough  even  now,  standing  on  the  rim  of  this  
incredible  shambles,  to
believe  that  she  had  not  loved  Tom  and  did  not  in  some  way  love  
him  still.  But  that  did  not
preclude  her  fear  of him . . . her hate of him . . . and her contempt of 
herself for choosing him
for  dim reasons buried in the times that should be over. Her heart was not 
breaking; it seemed
rather  to  be  broiling  in  her  chest,  melting.  She  was  afraid  the  
heat  from  her  heart  might  soon
destroy her sanity in fire.

But  above  all  this,  yammering  steadily  in  the  back  of  her  mind,  she 
 could  hear  Mike
Hanlon's dry, steady voice: It's come back, Beverly . . . it's come back . . . 
and you promised .

. .

The  vanity  heaved  up  and  down.  Once.  Twice.  A  third  time.  It  looked 
 as  if  it  were
breathing.

Moving  with  careful  agility,  her  mouth  turned  down  at  the  corners  
and  jerking  as  if  in

prelude  to  some  sort  of  convulsion,  she  skirted  the  vanity,  
toe-stepping  through  the  broken
glass, and grabbed the belt just as Tom heaved the vanity off to one side. Then 
she backed up,
sliding her hand into the loop. She shook her hair out of her eyes and watched 
to see what he
would do.

Tom  got  up.  Some  of  the  mirror-glass  had  cut  one  of  his  cheeks.  A  
diagonal  cut  traced  a
line as fine as thread across his brow. He squinted at her as he rose slowly to 
his feet, and she
saw drops of blood on his boxer shorts.

'You just give me that belt,' he said.

Instead she took two turns of it around her hand and looked at him defiantly.
'Quit it, Bev. Right now.'

'If you come for me, I'm going to strap the shit out of you.' The words were 
coming out of
her  mouth  but  she  couldn't  believe  it  was  her  saying  them.  And  just 
 who  was  this  caveman in
the   bloody   undershorts,   anyway?   Her   husband?   Her   father?   The   
lover   she   had   taken   in
college  who  had  broken  her  nose  one  night,  apparently  on  a  whim?  Oh 
 God  help  me,  she
thought. God help me now.  And still her mouth went on. 'I can do it, too. 
You're fat and slow,
Tom. I'm going, and I think maybe I'll stay gone. I think maybe it's over.'

'Who's this guy Denbrough?'
'Forget it. I was — '

She realized almost too late that the question had been a distraction. He was 
coming for her
before  the  last  word  was  out  of  his  mouth.  She  whickered  the  belt  
through  the  air  in  an  arc

and  the  sound  it  made  when  it  smashed  across  his  mouth  was  the  
sound  of  a  stubborn  cork
coming out of a bottle.

He  squealed  and  clapped  his  hands  to  his  mouth,  his  eyes  huge, hurt  
and  shocked.  Blood
began to pour between his fingers and over the backs of his hands.

'You broke my mouth, you bitch!' he screamed, muffled. 'Ah God you broke my 
mouth!'

He came at her again, hands reaching, his mouth a wet red smear. His lip s 
appeared to have
burst in two places. The crown had been knocked from one of his front teeth. As 
she watched,
he  spit  it  to  one  side.  Part  of  her  was  backing  away  from  this  
scene,  sick  and  moaning,


wanting  to  shut  her  eyes.  But  that  other  Beverly  felt  the  exultation 
 of  a  death-row convict
freed  in  a  freak  earthquake.  That  Beverly  liked  all  of  this  just  
fine.  I wish you'd swallowed it!
that one thought. Wish you'd choked on it!

It  was  this  latter  Beverly  who  swung  the  belt  for  the  last  time  —  
the belt  he  had  used  on
her buttocks, her legs, her breasts. The belt he had used on her times without 
number over the
last  four  years.  How  many  strokes  you  got  depended  on  how  badly  
you'd  screwed  up.  Tom
comes  home  and  dinner  is  cold?  Two  with  the  belt.  Bev's  working  
late  at  the  studio  and
forgets  to  call  home?  Three  with  the  belt.  Oh  hey,  look  at  this  — 
Beverly got another parking
ticket. One with the belt . . . across the breasts. He was good. He rarely 
bruised. It didn't even
hurt  that  much.  Except  for  the  humiliation. That  hurt.  And  what  hurt  
worse  was  knowing  that
part of her craved the hurt. Craved the humiliation.

Last time pays for all, she thought, and swung.

She  brought  the  belt  in  low,  brought  it  in  sidearm,  and  it  whacked  
across  his  balls  with  a
brisk  yet  heavy  sound,  the  sound  of  a  woman  striking  a  rug  with  a  
carpet-beater. That was all
it took. All the fight promptly went out of Tom Rogan.

He  uttered  a  thin,  strengthless  shriek  and  fell  on  his  knees  as  if  
to  pray.  His  hands  were
between his  legs.  His  head  was  thrown  back.  Cords  stood  out  on  his  
neck.  His  mouth  was  a
tragedy-grimace  of  pain.  His  left  knee  came  down  squarely  on  a  
heavy,  pointed  hook  of
shattered  perfume  bottle  and  he  rolled  silently  over  on  one  side  
like  a  whale.  One  hand  left
his balls to grab his squirting knee.

The blood, she thought. Dear Lord, he's bleeding everywhere.

He'll live,  this new Beverly  —  the  Beverly  who  seemed  to  have  surfaced 
 at  Mike  Hanlon's
phone call  —  replied  coldly.  Guys  like  him   always  live.  You  just  
get  the  hell  out  of  here
before he decides he wants to tango some more. Or before he decides to go down 
cellar and
get his Winchester.

She  backed  away  and  felt  pain  stab  her  foot  as  she  stepped  on  a  
chunk  of  glass  from  the
broken  vanity  mirror.  She  bent  down  to  grab  the  handle  of  her  
suitcase.  She  never  took  her
eyes  off  him.  She  backed  out  the  door  and  she  backed  down  the  
hall.  She  was  holding  the
suitcase  in  front  of  her  in  both  hands  and  it  banged  her  shins  as  
she  backed.  Her  cut  foot
printed  bloody  heel-prints.  When  she  reached  the  stairs  she  turned  
around  and  went  down
quickly,   not   letting   herself   think.   She   suspected   she   had   no  
 coherent   thoughts   left   inside
anyway, at least for the time being.

She felt a light pawing against her leg and screamed,

She looked down and saw it was the end of the belt. It was still wrapped around 
her hand.
In  this  dim  light  it  looked  more  like  a  dead  snake  than  ever.  She  
threw  it  over  the  bannister,
her face a wince of disgust, and saw it land in an S on the rug of the 
downstairs hallway.

At  the  foot  of  the  stairs  she  grasped  the  hem  of  her  white  lace  
nightgown  cross-handed and
pulled it over her head. It was bloody, and she would not wear it one second 
longer, no matter
what.  She  tossed  it  aside  and  it  billowed  onto  the  rubber-plant  by  
the  doorway  to  the  living
room  like  a  lacy  parachute.  She  bent,  naked,  to  the  suitcase.  Her  
nipples  were  cold,  hard  as
bullets.

'BEVERLY YOU GET YOUR ASS UPSTAIRS!'

She  gasped,  jerked,  then  bent  back  to  the  suitcase. If he was strong 
enough to scream that
loud, her time was a good deal shorter than she had thought. She opened the 
case and pawed
out panties, a blouse, an old pair of Levi's. She jerked these on standing by 
the door, her eyes
never  leaving  the  stairs.  But  Tom  did  not  appear  at  the  top  of  
them.  He  bawled  her  name
twice  more,  and  each  time  she  flinched  away  from  that  sound,  her  
eyes  hunted,  her  lips
pulling back from her teeth in an unconscious snarl.

She  jabbed  the  buttons  of  the  blouse  through  the  holes  as  fast  as  
she  could.  The  top  two

buttons  were  gone  (it  was  ironic  how  little  of  her  own  sewing  ever  
got  done)  and  she


supposed  she  looked  quite  a  bit  like  a  part-time  hooker  looking  for  
one  last  quickie  before
calling it a night — but it would have to do.

'I'LL KILL YOU, YOU BITCH! YOU FUCKING BITCH!'

She  slammed  the  suitcase  closed  and  latched  it.  The  arm  of  a  blouse 
 poked  out  like  a
tongue.  She  looked  around  once,  quickly,  suspecting  that  she  would  
never  see  this  house
again.

She discovered only relief in the idea, and so opened the door and let herself 
out.

She  was  three  blocks  away,  walking  with  no  clear  sense  of  where  she 
 was  going,  when  she
realized her feet were still bare. The one she had cut  — the left  —  throbbed 
dully. She had to
get  something  on  her  feet,  and  it  was  nearly  two  o'clock  in  the  
morning.  Her  wallet  and
credit-cards were at home. She felt in the pockets of the jeans and came up 
with nothing but a
few  puffs  of  lint.  She  didn't  have  a  dime;  not  so  much  as  a  red  
penny.  She looked around at
the  residential  neighborhood  she  was  in  —  nice  homes,  manicured  lawns 
 and  plantings,  dark
windows.

And suddenly she began to laugh.

Beverly  Rogan  sat  on  a  low  stone  wall,  her  suitcase  between  her  
dirty  feet,  and  laughed.
The  stars  were  out,  and  how  bright  they  were!  She  tilted  her  head  
back  and  laughed  at  them,
that  wild  exhilaration  washing  through  her  again  like  a  tidal  wave  
that  lifted  and  carried  and
cleansed,  a  force  so  powerful  that  any  conscious  thought  was  lost;  
only  her blood thought and
its       one  powerful  voice  spoke  to  her  in  some  inarticulate  way  of 
 desire,  although  what  it  was  it
desired  she  neither  knew  nor  cared.  It  was  enough  to  feel  that  
warmth  filling  her  up  with  its
insistence.   Desire,   she   thought,   and   inside   her  that  tidal  wave  
of  exhilaration  seemed  to
gather speed, rushing her onward toward some inevitable crash.

She  laughed  at  the  stars,  frightened  but  free,  her  terror  as  sharp  
as  pain  and  as  sweet  as  a
ripe  October  apple,  and  when  a  light  came  on  in  an  upstairs  bedroom 
 of  the  house  this  stone
wall  belonged  to,  she  grabbed  the  handle  of  her  suitcase  and  fled  
off  into  the  night,  still
laughing.

6

Bill Denbrough Takes Time Out

'Leave?  Audra  repeated.  She  looked  at  him,  puzzled,  a  bit  afraid,  
and  then  tucked her bare
feet  up  and  under  her.  The  floor  was  cold.  The  whole  cottage  was  
cold,  come  to  that.  The
south  of  England  had  been  experiencing  an  exceptionally  dank  spring,  
and  more  than  once,
on   his   regular   morning   and   evening   walks,   Bill   Denbrough   had  
 found  himself  thinking  of
Maine . . . thinking in a surprised vague way of Derry.

The  cottage  was  supposed  to  have  central  heating — the ad had said so, 
and there certainly
was  a  furnace  down  there  in  the  tidy  little  basement,  tucked  away  
in  what  had  once  been a
coal-bin  —  but  he  and  Audra  had  discovered  early  on  in  the  shoot  
that  the  British  idea  of
central  heating  was  not  at  all  the  same  as  the  American  one.  It  
seemed  the  Brits  believed  you
had  central  heating  as  long  as  you  didn't  have  to  piss  away  a  
scrim  of  ice  in  the  toilet  bowl
when  you  got  up  in  the  morning.  It  was  morning  now —  just  quarter  
of  eight.  Bill  had  hung
the phone up five minutes ago.

'Bill, you can't just leave. You know that.'

'I  have  to,'  he  said.  There  was  a  hutch  on  the  far  side  of  the  
room.  He  went  to  it,  took  a
bottle  of  Glenfiddich  from  the  top  shelf  and  poured  himself  a  drink. 
 Some  of  it  slopped  over
the side of the glass. Tuck,' he muttered.

'Who was that on the telephone? What are you scared of, Bill?'


'I'm not scared.'

'Oh?   Your   hands   always   shake   like   that?   You   always   have   
your   first   drink   before
breakfast?'

He  came  back  to  his  chair,  robe  flapping  around  his  ankles,  and  sat 
 down.  He  tried  to

smile, but it was a poor effort and he gave it up.

On  the  telly  the  BBC  announcer  was  wrapping  up  this  morning's  batch  
of  bad  news  before
going  on  to  last  evening's  football  scores.  When  they  had  arrived  in 
 the  small  suburban
village  of  Fleet  a  month  before  the  shoot  was  scheduled  to  begin,  
they  had  both  marvelled
over  the  technical  quality  of  British  television —  on a good Pye color 
set, it really did look as
though  you  could  climb  right  inside.  More  lines  or  something,  Bill 
had said.  I  don't  know
what it is, but it's great,  Audra had replied. That was before they  
discovered that much of the
programming  consisted  of  American  shows  such  as  Dallas  and  endless  
British  sports  events
ranging  from  the  arcane  and  boring  (champion  darts-throwing,  in  which  
all  the  participants
looked   like   hypertensive   sumo   wrestlers)   to   the   simply  boring  
(British  football  was  bad;
cricket was even worse).

'I've been thinking about home a lot lately,' Bill said, and sipped his drink.
'Home?' she said, and looked so honestly puzzled that he laughed.

'Poor  Audra!  Married  almost  eleven  years  to  the  guy  and  you  don't  
know  doodley-squat
about  him.  What  do  you  know  about  that?'  He  laughed  again  and  
swallowed  the  rest  of  his
drink.  His  laughter  had  a  quality  she  cared  for  as  little  as  seeing 
 him  with  a  glass  of  Scotch  in
his  hand  at  this  hour  of  the  morning.  The  laugh  sounded  like  
something  that  really  wanted  to
be  a  howl  of  pain.  'I  wonder  if  any  of  the  others  have  got  
husbands  and  wives  who  are  just
finding out how little they know. I suppose they must. '

'Billy, I know that I love you,' she said. 'For eleven years that's been 
enough.'
'I know.' He smiled at her — the smile was sweet, tired, and scared.

'Please. Please tell me what this is about.'

She  looked  at  him  with  her  lovely  gray  eyes,  sitting  there  in  a  
tatty  leased-house chair with
her  feet  curled  beneath  the  hem  of  her  nightgown,  a  woman  he  had  
loved,  married,  and  still
loved. He tried to see through her eyes, to see what she knew. He tried to see 
it as a story. He
could, but he knew it would never sell.

Here  is a poor boy from the state of Maine who goes to the University on a 
scholarship. All
his  life  he  has  wanted  to  be  a  writer,  but  when  he  enrolls  in  the 
 writing  courses  he  finds
himself  lost  without  a  compass  in  a  strange  and  frightening  land.  
There's  one  guy who wants
to     be  Updike.  There's  another  one  who  wants  to  be  a  New  England  
version  of  Faulkner  —
only  he  wants  to  write  novels  about  the  grim  lives  of  the  poor in  
blank  verse.  There's  a  girl
who  admires  Joyce  Carol  Gates  but  feels  that  because  Oates  was  
nurtured in a sexist society
she  is  'radioactive  in  a  literary  sense.'  Oates  is  unable  to  be  
clean,  this  girl  says.  She  will  be
cleaner.  There's  the  short  fat  grad  student  who  can't  or  won't  speak 
 above  a  mutter.  This  guy
has  written  a  play  in  which  there  are  nine  characters.  Each  of  them 
 says  only  a  single  word.
Little  by  little  the  playgoers  realize  that  when  you  put  the  single  
words  together  you  come  out
with  'War  is  the  tool  of  the  sexist  death  merchants.'  This  fellow's  
play  receives  an  A  from  the
man  who  teaches  Eh-141  (Creative  Writing  Honors  Seminar).  This  
instructor  has  published
four books of poetry and his master's thesis, all with the University Press. He 
smokes pot and
wears  a  peace  medallion.  The  fat  mutterer's  play  is  produced  by  a  
guerrilla  theater  group
during the strike to end the war which shuts down the campus in May of 1970. 
The instructor
plays one of the characters.

Bill   Denbrough,   meanwhile,   has   written   one   locked-room   mystery   
tale,   three   science-
fiction  stories,  and  several  horror  tales  which  owe  a  great  deal  to  
Edgar  Allan  Poe,  H.  P.
Lovecraft,  and  Richard  Matheson  —  in  later  years  he  will  say  those  
stories  resembled  a  mid-
1800s funeral hack equipped with a supercharger and painted Day-Glo red.


One of the sf tales earns him a B.

'This is better,'  the instructor writes on the title page. 'In the alien 
counterstrike we see the
vicious  circle  in  which  violence  begets  violence;  I  particularly  liked 
 the  "needle-nosed"
spacecraft  as  a  symbol  of  socio-sexual  incursion.  While  this  remains a 
slightly confused
undertone throughout, it is interesting.'

All the others do no better than a C.

Finally  he  stands  up  in  class  one  day,  after  the  discussion  of  a  
sallow  young  woman's
vignette  about  a  cow's  examination  of  a  discarded  engine  block  in  a  
deserted  field  (this  may
or  may  not  be  after  a  nuclear  war)  has  gone  on  for  seventy  minutes 
 or  so.  The  sallow  girl,
who  smokes  one  Winston  after  another  and  picks  occasionally  at  the  
pimples  which  nestle  in
the   hollows   of   her   temples,   insists   that   the   vignette   is   a  
 socio-political  statement  in  the
manner  of  the  early  Orwell.  Most  of  the  class  —  and  the  instructor  
 —  agree,  but  still  the
discussion drones on.

When Bill stands up, the class looks at him. He is tail, and has a certain 
presence.

Speaking  carefully,  not  stuttering  (he  has  not  stuttered  in  better  
than  five  years),  he  says:  'I
don't understand this at all. I don't understand  any of this. Why does a story 
have to be socio-
anything?  Politics  .  .  .  culture  .  .  .  history  .  .  .  aren't those  
natural  ingredients  in  any  story,  if
it's told well? I mean . . . ' He looks around, sees hostile eyes, and realizes 
dimly that they see
this  as  some  sort  of  attack.  Maybe  it  even  is.  They  are  thinking,  
he  realizes,  that  maybe  there
is a sexist death merchant in their midst. 'I mean . . . can't you guys just 
let a story be a story?

No  one  replies.  Silence  spins  out.  He  stands  there  looking  from  one  
cool  set  of  eyes  to  the
next.  The  sallow  girl  chuffs  out  smoke  and  snubs  her  cigarette  in  
an  ashtray she has brought
along in her backpack.

Finally  the  instructor  says  softly,  as  if  to  a  child  having  an  
inexplicable  tantrum,  'Do  you
believe   William   Faulkner   was   just   telling  stories'?  Do  you  
believe  Shakespeare  was  just
interested in making a buck? Come now, Bill. Tell us what you think.'

'I  think  that's  pretty  close  to  the  truth,'  Bill  says  after  a  long  
moment  in  which  he  honestly
considers the question, and in their eyes he reads a kind of damnation.

'I  suggest,'  the  instructor  says,  toying  with  his  pen  and  smiling  at 
 Bill  with  half-lidded eyes,

'that you have a great deal to learn.'

The applause starts somewhere in the back of the room.

Bill  leaves  .  .  .  but  returns  the  next  week,  determined  to  stick  
with  it.  In  the  time  between
he  has  written  a  story  called  'The  Dark,'  a  tale  about  a  small  boy 
 who  discovers  a  monster  in
the  cellar  of  his  house.  The  little  boy  faces  it,  battles  it,  
finally  kills  it.  He  feels  a  land  of  holy
exaltation  as  he  goes  about  the  business  of  writing  this  story;  he  
even  feels  that  he  is  not  so
much  telling  the  story  as  he  is  allowing  the  story  to   flow  through 
 him.  At  one  point  he  puts
his  pen  down  and  takes  his  hot  and  aching  hand  out  into  ten-degree  
December  cold  where  it
nearly  smokes  from  the  temperature  change.  He  walks  around,  green  
cut-off  boots  squeaking
in  the  snow  like  tiny  shutter-hinges  which  need  oil,  and  his  head  
seems  to  bulge  with the
story; it is a little scary, the way it needs to get out. He feels that if it 
cannot escape by way of
his  racing  hand that it will pop his eyes out in its urgency to escape and be 
concrete. 'Going to
knock the  shit  out of it,' he confides to the blowing winter dark, and laughs 
a little  — a shaky
laugh.  He  is  aware  that  he  has  finally  discovered  how  to  do  just  
that  —  after  ten  years  of
trying  he  has  suddenly  found  the  starter  button  on  the  vast  dead  
bulldozer  taking  up  so  much
space  inside  his  head.  It  has  started  up.  It  is  revving,  revving.  
It  is  nothing  pretty,  this  big
machine.  It  was  not  made  for  taking  pretty  girls  to  proms.  It  is  
not  a  status  symbol.  It  means
business. It can knock things down. If he isn't careful, it will knock him 
down.

He  rushes  inside  and  finishes  'The  Dark'  at  white  heat,  writing  
until  four  o'clock  in  the
morning  and  finally  falling  asleep   over  his  ring-binder.  If  someone  
had  suggested  to  him  that


he  was  really  writing  about  his  brother,  George,  he  would  have  been  
surprised.  He  has  not
thought about George in years — or so he honestly believes.

The  story  comes  back  from  the  instructor  with  an  F  slashed  into  the 
 tide  page.  Two  words
are scrawled beneath, in capital letters. PULP, screams one. CRAP, screams the 
other.

Bill  takes  the  fifteen-page  sheaf  of  manuscript  over  to  the  
wood-stove  and  opens  the  door.
He  is  within  a  bare  inch  of  tossing  it  in  when  the  absurdity  of  
what  he  is  doing  strikes  him.
He  sits  down  in  his  rocking  chair,  looks  at  a  Grateful  Dead  poster, 
 and  starts  to  laugh.  Pulp?
Fine! Let it be pulp! The woods were full of it!

'Let  them  fucking  trees  fall!'  Bill  exclaims,  and  laughs  until  tears  
spurt  from  his  eyes  and

roll down his face.

He  retypes  the  title  page,  the  one  with  the  instructor's  judgment  on 
 it,  and  sends  it  off  to  a
men's magazine named  White Tie  (although  from  what  Bill  can  see,  it  
really  should  be  titled
Naked  Girls  Who  Look  Like  Drug  Users').  Yet his battered  Writer's  
Market  says they buy
horror  stories,  and  the  two  issues  he  has  bought  down  at  the  local  
mom-and-pop store have
indeed  contained  four  horror  stories  sandwiched  between  the  naked  
girls  and the ads for dirty
movies  and  potency  pills.  One  of  them,  by  a  man  named  Dennis  
Etchison,  is  actually  quite
good.

He  sends  'The  Dark'  off  with  no  real  hopes   —  he  has  submitted  a  
good  many  stories  to
magazines  before  with  nothing  to  show  for  it  but  rejection slips  —  
and  is  flabbergasted  and
delighted  when  the  fiction  editor  of  White Tie  buys  it  for  two  
hundred  dollars,  payment  on
publication.  The  assistant  editor  adds  a  short  note  which  calls  it  
'the  best  damned  horror  story
since  Ray  Bradbury's  "The  Jar."'  He  adds,  'Too  bad  only  about  
seventy  people  coast  to  coast
will read it,' but Bill Denbrough does not care. Two hundred dollars!

He  goes  to  his  advisor  with  a  drop  card  for  Eh-141.  His  advisor  
initials  it.  Bill  Denbrough
staples  the  drop  card  to  the  assistant  fiction  editor's  congratulatory 
 note  and  tacks  both  to  the
bulletin  board  on  the  creative-writing  instructor's  door.  In  the  
corner  of  the  bulletin  board  he
sees  an  anti-war  cartoon.  And  suddenly,  as  if  moving  of  its  own  
accord,  his  fingers  pluck his
pen  from  his  breast  pocket  and  across  the  cartoon  he  writes  this:  
If  fiction  and  politics  ever
really do become interchangeable, I'm going to kill myself, because I won't 
know what else to
do. You see, politics always change. Stories never do.  He  pauses, and then, 
feeling a bit small
(but unable to help himself), he adds: I suggest you have a lot to learn.

His  drop  card  comes  back  to  him  in  the  campus  mail  three  days  
later.  The  instructor  has
initialed  it.  On  the  space  marked  GRADE  AT  TIME  OF  DROP, the 
instructor has not given him an
incomplete  or  the  low  C  to  which  his  run  of  grades  at  that  time  
would  have  entitled  him;
instead,  another  F  is  slashed  angrily  across  the  grade  line.  Below  
it  the  instructor  has  written:
Do you think money proves anything about anything, Denbrough?

'Well,  actually,  yes,'  Bill  Denbrough  says  to  his  empty  apartment,  
and  once  more  begins  to
laugh crazily.

In  his  senior  year  of  college  he  dares  to  write  a  novel  because  he 
 has  no  idea  what  he's

getting  into.  He  escapes  the  experience  scratched  and  frightened  .  .  
.  but  alive,  and  with  a
manuscript  nearly  five  hundred  pages  long.  He  sends  it  out  to  The  
Viking  Press,  knowing  that
it  will  be  the  first  of  many  stops  for  his  book,  which  is  about  
ghosts  .  .  .  but  he  likes  Viking's
ship  logo,  and  that  makes  it  as  good  a  place  to  start  as  any.  As  
it  turns  out,  the  first  stop  is
also  the  last  stop.  Viking  purchases  the  book  .  .  .  and  for  Bill  
Denbrough  the  fairytale  begins.
The  man  who  was  once  known  as  Stuttering  Bill  has  become  a  success  
at  the  age  of  twenty-
three.  Three  years  later  and  three  thousand  miles  from  northern  New  
England,  he  attains  a
queer  kind  of  celebrity  by  marrying  a  woman  who  is  a  movie-star and 
five years his senior at
Hollywood's Church in the Pines.

The  gossip  columnists  give  it  seven  months.  The  only  bet,  they  say,  
is  whether  the  end  will
come  in  a  divorce  or  an  annulment.  Friends  (and  enemies)  on  both  
sides  of  the  match  feel


about  the  same.  The  age  difference  apart,  the  disparities  are  
startling.  He  is  tall,  already
balding,  already  inclining  a  bit  toward  fat.  He  speaks  slowly  in  
company,  and  at  times  seems
nearly  inarticulate.  Audra,  on  the  other  hand,  is  auburn-haired,  
statuesque,  and  gorgeous   —
she  is less like an earthly woman than a creature from some semi-divine 
superrace.

He  has  been  hired  to  do  the  screenplay  of  his  second  novel,   The  
Black  Rapids  (mostly
because  the  right  to  do  at  least  the  first  draft  of  the  screenplay  
was  an  immutable  condition  of
sale,  in  spite  of  his  agent's  moans  that  he  was  insane),  and  his  
draft  has  actually  turned  out
pretty  well.  He  has  been  invited  out  to  Universal  City  for  further  
rewrites  and  production
meetings.

His  agent  is  a  small  woman  named  Susan  Browne.  She  is  exactly  five  
feet  tall.  She  is
violently  energetic  and  even  more  violently  emphatic.  'Don't  do  it,  
Billy,'  she  tells  him.  'Kiss
it  off.  They've  got  a  lot  of  money  tied  up  in  it  and  they'll  get  
someone  good  to  do  the
screenplay. Maybe even Goldman.'

'Who?'

'William Goldman. The only good writer who ever went out there and did both.'
'What are you talking about, Suze?'

'He  stayed  there  and  he  stayed  good,'  she  said.  'The  odds  on  both  
are  like  the  odds  on
beating  lung  cancer  —  it  can  be  done,  but  who  wants  to  try?  You'll 
 burn  out  on  sex  and
booze.  Or  some  of  the  nifty  new  drugs.  '  Susan's  crazily  fascinating 
 brown  eyes  sparkle
vehemently  up  at  him.  'And  if  it  turns  out  to  be  some  meatball  who 
 gets  the  assignment
instead  of  someone  like  Goldman,  so  what?  The  book's  on  the  shelf  
there.  They can't change
a word.'

'Susan — '

'Listen  to  me,  Billy!  Take  the  money  and  run.  You're  young  and  
strong.  That's  what  they
like.  You  go  out  there  and  they  will  first  separate  you  from  your  
self-respect  and  then  from
your  ability  to  write  a  straight  line  from  point  A  to  point  B.  
Last  but  not  least,  they  will  take
your testes. You write like a grownup, but you're just a kid with a very high 
forehead.'

'I have to go.'

'Did someone just fart in here?' she returns. 'Must have, because something 
sure stinks.'
'But I do. I have to.'

'Jesus!'

'I  have  to  get  away  from  New  England.'  He  is  afraid  to  say  what  
comes  next  —  it's like
mouthing a curse — but he owes it to her. 'I have to get away from Maine.'

'Why, for God's sake?'

'I don't know. I just do.'

'Are you telling me something real, Billy, or just talking like a writer?'
'It's real.'

They  are  in  bed  together  during  this  conversation.  Her  breasts  are  
small  like  peaches,  sweet
like  peaches.  He  loves  her  a  lot,  although not the way they both know 
would be a really good
way to love. She sits up with a pool of sheet in her lap and lights a 
cigarette. She's crying, but
he  doubts  if  she  knows  he  knows.  It's  just  this  shine  in  her  eyes. 
 It  would  be  tactful  not  to
mention it,  so he doesn't. He doesn't love her in that really good way, but he 
cares a mountain
for her.

'Go  on  then,'  she  says  in  a  dry  businesslike  voice  as  she  turns  
back  to  him.  'Give  me  a  call
when  you're  ready,  and  if  you  still  have  the  strength.  I'll  come  
and pick up the pieces. If there
are any left.'

The film version of  The Black Rapids  is called  Pit of the Black Demon,  and 
Audra Phillips
is cast as the lead. The title is horrible, but the movie turns out to be quite 
good. And the only
part of him he loses in Hollywood is his heart.


'Bill,'  Audra  said  again,  bringing  him  out  of  these  memories.  He  saw 
 she  had  snapped  off
the TV. He glanced out the window and saw fog nuzzling against the panes.

'I'll explain as much as I can,' he said. 'You deserve that. But first do two 
things for me.'
'All right.'

'Fix  yourself  another  cup  of  tea  and  tell  me  what  you  know  about  
me.  Or  what  you  think
you know.'

She looked at him, puzzled, and then went to the highboy.

'I  know  you're  from  Maine,'  she  said,  making  herself  tea  from  the  
breakfast  pot.  She  was
not  British,  but  just  a  touch  of  clipped  British  had  crept  into  her 
 voice  — a holdover from the
part  she  played  in   Attic  Room,  the  movie  they  had  come  over  here  
to  do.  It  was  Bill's  first
original  screenplay.  He  had  been  offered  the  directorial  shot  as  
well.  Thank  God  he  had
declined  that;  his  leaving  now  would  have  completed  the  job  of  
bitching  things  up.  He  knew
what  they  would  all  say,  the  whole  crew.  Billy  Denbrough  finally  
shows  his  true  colors. Just
another fucking writer, crazier than a shithouse rat.

God knew he felt crazy right about now.

'I know you had a brother and that you loved him very much and that he died,' 
Audra went
on.  'I  know  that  you  grew  up  in  a  town  called  Derry,  moved to 
Bangor about two years after
your  brother  died,  and  moved  to  Portland  when  you  were  fourteen.  I  
know  your  dad  died  of
lung  cancer  when  you  were  seventeen.  And  you  wrote  a  best-seller  
while  you  were  still  in
college,  paying  your  way  with  a  scholarship  and  a  part-time  job  in  
a  textile  mill.  That  must
have seemed very strange to you . . . the change in income. In prospects.'

She  returned  to  his  side  of  the  room  and  he  saw  it  in  her  face  
then:  the  realization  of  the

hidden spaces between them.

'I know that you wrote  The Black Rapids  a year later, and came out to 
Hollywood. And the
week  before  shooting  started  on  the  movie,  you  met  a  very  mixed-up 
woman named Audra
Phillips   who   knew   a   little   bit   about   what   you   must   have   
been   through  —   the   crazy
decompression  —  because  she  had  been  plain  old  Audrey  Philpott  five  
years  before.  And  this
woman was drowning — '

'Audra, don't.'

Her eyes were steady, holding his. 'Oh, why not? Let us tell the truth and 
shame the devil. I
was  drowning.  I  discovered  poppers  two  years  before  I  met  you,  and  
then  a  year  later  I
discovered  coke  and  that  was  even  better.  A  popper  in  the  morning,  
coke  in  the  afternoon,
wine  at  night,  a  Valium  at  bedtime.  Audra's  vitamins.  Too  many  
important  interviews,  too
many   good   parts.   I  was  so  much  like  a  character  in  a  Jacqueline  
Susann  novel  it  was
hilarious. Do you know how I think about that time now, Bill?'

'No.'

She  sipped  her  tea,  her  eyes  never  leaving  his,  and  grinned.  'It  
was  like  running  on  the
walkway at LA International. You get it?'

'Not exactly, no.'

'It's a moving belt,' she said. 'About a quarter of a mile long.'

'I know the walkway,' he said, 'but I don't see what you're — '

'You  just  stand  there  and  it  carries  you  all  the  way  to  the  
baggage-claim area. But if you
want, you don't have to just stand there. You can walk on it. Or run. And it 
seems like you're
just  doing  your  normal  walk  or  your  normal  jog  or  your  normal  run  
or  your  normal  all-out
sprint — whatever  —  because  your  body  forgets  that  what you're  really  
doing is topping the
speed  the  walkway's  already  making.  That's  why  they  have  those  signs  
that  say SLOW  DOWN,
MOVING RAMPWAY  near  the  end.  When  I  met  you  I  felt  as  if  I'd  run  
right  off  the  end  of  that
thing  onto  a  floor  that  didn't  move  anymore.  There  I  was,  my  body  
nine  miles  ahead  of  my
feet.  You  can't  keep  your  balance.  Sooner  or  later  you  fall  right  
on  your  face.  Except  I  didn't.
Because you caught me.'


She  put  her  tea  aside  and  lit  a  cigarette,  her  eyes  never  leaving  
him.  He  could  only see that
her  hands  were  shaking  in  the  minute  jitter  of  the  lighter-flame,  
which  darted  first  to  the  right
of the cigarette-end and then to the left before finding it.

She drew deep, blew out a fast jet of smoke.

'What  do  I  know  about  you?  I  know you seemed to have it all under 
control. I know that.
You  never  seemed  to  be  in  a  hurry  to  get  to  the  next  drink  or  
the  next  meeting  or  the  next
party. You seemed confident that all those things would be there . . . if you 
wanted them. You
talked slow. Part of it was the Maine drawl, I guess, but most of it was just 
you. You were the
first man I ever met out there who dared to talk slow. I had to slow down to 
listen. I looked at
you,  Bill,  and  I  saw  someone  who  never  ran  on  the  walkway,  because  
he  knew  it  would get
him  there.  You  seemed  utterly  untouched  by  the  hype  and  hysteria.  
You  didn't  lease  a  Rolls
so  you  could  drive  down  Rodeo  Drive  on  Saturday  afternoon  with  your  
own  vanity  plates  on
some  glitzy  rental  company's  car.  You  didn't  have  a  press  agent  to 
plant items in  Variety  or
The Hollywood Reporter. You'd never done the Carson show.'

'Writers  can't  unless  they  also  do  card-tricks  or  bend  spoons,'  he  
said,  smiling.  'It's  like  a
national law.'

He  thought  she  would  smile,  but  she  didn't.  'I  know  you  were  there  
when  I  needed  you.
When  I  came  flying  off  the  end  of  the  walkway  like  O.  J.  Simpson  
in  that  old  Hertz  ad.
Maybe you saved me from eating the wrong pill on top of too much booze. Or 
maybe I would
have made it out the other side on my own and it's all a big dramatization on 
my part. But . . .
it doesn't feel like that. Not inside, where I am.'

She snuffed the cigarette, only two puffs gone.

'I know you've been there ever since. And I've been there for you. We're  good 
in bed. That
used  to seem like  a  big deal to me. But we're also good out of it, and now 
that seems like a
bigger  deal.  I  feel  as  if  I  could  grow  old  with  you  and  still  be  
brave.  I  know  you  drink  too
much beer and don't get enough exercise; I know that some nights you dream 
badly — '

He was startled. Nastily startled. Almost frightened.
'I never dream.'

She  smiled.  'So  you  tell  the  interviewers  when  they  ask  where  you  
get  your  ideas.  But  it's

not  true.  Unless  it's  just  indigestion  when  you  start  groaning  in  
the  night. And I don't believe
that, Billy.'

'Do  I  talk?'  he  asked  cautiously.  He  could  remember  no  dreams.  No  
dreams  at  all,  good  or

bad.

Audra  nodded.  'Sometimes.  But  I  can  never  make  out  what  it  is  you  
say.  And  on  a  couple
of occasions, you have wept.'

He  looked  at  her  blankly.  There  was  a  bad  taste  in  his  mouth;  it  
trailed  back  along  his
tongue and down his throat like the taste of melted aspirin.  So now you know 
how fear tastes,
he thought. Time you found out, considering all you've written on the subject. 
He supposed it
was a taste he would get used to. If he lived long enough.

Memories  were  suddenly  trying  to  crowd  in.  It  was  as  if  a  black  
sac  in  his  mind  were
bulging, threatening to spew noxious

(dreams)

images  up  from  his  subconscious  and  into  the  mental  field  of  vision  
commanded  by  his
rational waking mind  —  and  if  that  happened  all  at  once,  it  would  
drive  him  mad.  He  tried  to
push  them  back,  and  succeeded,  but  not  before  he  heard  a  voice   —  
it  was  as  if  someone
buried alive had cried out from the ground. It was Eddie Kaspbrak's voice.

You  saved  my  life,  Bill.  Those  big  boys,  they  drive  me  bugshit.  
Sometimes  I  think  they
really want to kill me —

'Your arms,' Audra said.


Bill  looked  down  at  them.  The  flesh  there  had  humped  into  
gooseflesh.  Not  little  bumps
but  huge  white  knobs  like  insect  eggs.  They  both  stared,  saying  
nothing,  as  if  looking  at  an
interesting museum exhibit. The goosebumps slowly melted away.

In  the  silence  that  followed  Audra  said:  'And  I  know  one  other 
thing. Someone called you
this morning from the States and said you have to leave me.'

He  got  up,  looked  briefly  at  the  liquor  bottles,  then  went  into  the 
 kitchen  and  came  back

with  a  glass  of  orange  juice.  He  said:  'You  know  I  had  a  brother,  
and  you know he died, but
you don't know he was murdered.'

Audra took in a quick snatch of breath.

'Murdered! Oh, Bill, why didn't you ever — '

'Tell you?' He laughed, that barking sound again. 'I don't know.'
'What happened?'

'We  were  living  in  Derry  then.  There  had  been  a  flood,  but  it  was  
mostly  over,  and  George
was bored. I was sick in bed with the flu. He wanted me to make him a boat out 
of a sheet of
newspaper.  I  knew  how  from  daycamp  the  year  before.  He  said  he  was  
going  to  sail  it  down
the  gutters  on  Witcham  Street  and  Jackson  Street,  because  they  were  
still  full  of  water.  So  I
made  him  the  boat  and  he  thanked  me  and  he  went  out  and  that  was  
the  last  time  I  ever  saw
my brother George alive. If I hadn't had the flu, maybe I could have saved 
him.'

He  paused,  right  palm  rubbing  at  his  left  cheek,  as  if  testing  for  
beard-stubble.  His  eyes,
magnified by the lenses of his glasses, looked thoughtful . . . but he was not 
looking at her.

'It  happened  right  there  on  Witcham  Street,  not  too  far  from  the  
intersection  with  Jackson.
Whoever  killed  him  pulled  his  left  arm  off  the  way  a  second-grader  
would  pull  a  wing  off  a

fly.  Medical  examiner  said  he  either  died  of  shock  or  blood-loss.  
Far  as  I  could  ever  see,  it
didn't make a dime's worth of difference which it was.'

'Christ, Bill!'

'I  imagine  you  wonder  why  I  never  told  you.  The  truth  is  I  wonder  
myself.  Here  we've  been
married  eleven  years  and  until  today  you  never  knew  what  happened  to 
 Georgie.  I  know
about  your  whole  family  —  even  your  aunts  and  uncles.  I  know  your  
grandfather  died  in  his
garage  in  Iowa  City  frigging  around  with  his  chainsaw  while  he  was  
drunk.  I  know  those
things  because  married  people,  no  matter  how  busy  they  are,  get  to  
know  almost  everything
after  awhile.  And  if  they  get  really  bored  and  stop  listening,  they  
pick  it  up  anyway  —  by
osmosis. Or do you think I'm wrong?'

'No,' she said faintly. 'You're not wrong, Bill.'

'And we've always been able to talk to each other, haven't we? I mean, neither 
of us got  so
bored it ever had to be osmosis, right?'

'Well,' she said, 'until today I always thought so.'

'Come on, Audra. You know everything that's happened to me over the last eleven 
years of
my  life.  Every  deal,  every  idea,  every  cold,  every  friend,  every guy 
that ever did me wrong or
tried  to.  You  know  I  slept  with  Susan  Browne.  You  know  that  
sometimes  I  get  maudlin  when
I drink and play the records too loud.'

'Especially the Grateful Dead,' she said, and he laughed. This time she smiled 
back.
'You know the most important stuff, too — the things I hope for.'

'Yes.  I  think  so.  But  this  .  .  .  '  She  paused,  shook  her  head,  
thought  for  a  moment.  'How
much does this call have to do with your brother, Bill?'

'Let  me  get  to  it  ia  my  own  way.  Don't try to rush me into the center 
of it or you'll have me
committed. It's so big . . . and so . . . so quaintly awful . . . that I'm 
trying to sort of creep up
on it. You see . . . it never occurred to me to tell you about Georgie.'

She looked at him, frowned, shook her head faintly — I don't understand.

'What I'm trying to tell you, Audra, is that I haven't even  thought of George 
in twenty years
or more.'


'But you told me you had a brother named — '

'I repeated a fact,' he said. 'That was  all. His name was a word. It cast no 
shadow at all in
my mind.'

'But  I  think  maybe  it  cast  a  shadow  over  your  dreams,'  Audra  said.  
Her  voice  was  very
quiet.

'The groaning? The crying?'
She nodded.

'I  suppose  you  could  be  right,'  he  said.  'In  fact,  you're  almost  
surely  right.  But  dreams  you

don't remember don't really count, do they?'

'Are you really telling me you never thought of him at all'

'Yes. I am.'

She shook her head, frankly disbelieving. 'Not even the horrible way he die d?'
'Not until today, Audra.'

She looked at him and shook her head again.

'You  asked  me  before  we  were  married  if  I  had  any  brothers  or  
sisters,  and  I  said  I  had  a
brother who died when I was a kid. You knew my parents were gone, and you've 
got so much
family that it took up your entire field of attention. But that's not all.'

'What do you mean?'

'It isn't just George that's been in that black hole. I haven't thought  of 
Derry itself in  twenty
years.  Not  the  people  I  chummed  with  — Eddie  Kaspbrak  and  Richie  the 
 Mouth,  Stan  Uris,
Bev Marsh . . . ' He ran his hands through his hair and laughed shakily. 'It's 
like having a case
of amnesia so bad you don't know you've got it. And when Mike Hanlon called — '

'Who's Mike Hanlon?'

'Another kid that we chummed with  —  that  I  chummed  with  after  Georgie  
died.  Of  course
he's  no  kid  anymore.  None  of  us  are.  That  was  Mike  on  the  phone,  
transatlantic  cable.  He
said,  "Hello  —  have  I  reached  the  Denbrough  residence?"  and  I  said  
yes,  and  he  said,  "Bill?
Is  that  you?"  and  I  said  yes,  and  he  said,  "This  is  Mike  Hanlon."  
It  meant  nothing  to  me,
Audra.  He  might  as  well  have  been  selling  encyclopedias  or  Burl  Ives 
 records.  Then  he  said,
"From  Derry."  And  when  he  said  that  it  was  like  a  door  opened  
inside  me and some horrible
light  shined  out,  and  I  remembered  who  he  was.  I  remembered  Georgie. 
 I  remembered  all  the
others. All this happened — '

Bill snapped his fingers.

'Like that. And I knew he was going to ask me to come.'
'Come back to Derry.'

'Yeah.'  He  took  his  glasses  off,  rubbed  his  eyes,  looked  at  her.  
Never  in  her  life  had  she
seen a man who looked so frightened. 'Back to Derry. Because we promised, he 
said, and we
did. We  did.  All  of  us.  Us  kids.  We  stood  in  the  creek  that  ran  
through the Barrens, and we
held  hands  in  a  circle,  and  we  had  cut  our  palms  with  a  piece  of  
glass  so  it  was  like  a  bunch
of kids playing blood brothers, only it was real.'

He  held  his  palms  out  to  her,  and  in  the  center  of  each  she  could 
 see  a  close-set  ladder of
white  lines  that  could  have  been  scar-tissue.  She  had  held  his hand  
—  both  his  hands  —
countless  times,  but  she  had  never  noticed  these  scars  across  his  
palms  before.  They  were
faint, yes, but she would have believed —

And the party! That party!

Not  the  one  where  they  had  met,  although  this  second  one  formed  a  
perfect  book-end to
that  first  one,  because  it  had  been  the  wrap  party  at  the  end  of  
the  Pit of the Black Demon
shoot.  It  had  been  loud  and  drunk,  every  inch  the  Topanga  Canyon  
'do.  '  Perhaps a little less
bitchy  than  some  of  the  other  LA  parties  she  had  been  to,  because  
the  shoot  had  gone  better


than  they  had  any  right  to  expect,  and  they  all  knew  it.  For  Audra 
 Phillips  it  had  gone  even
better, because she had fallen in love with William Denbrough.

What  was  the  name  of  the  self-proclaimed  palmist?  She  couldn't  
remember  now,  only  that
she  had  been  one  of  the  makeup  man's  two  assistants.  She  remembered  
the  girl  whipping  off
her  blouse  at  some  point  in  the  party  (revealing  a  very  filmy bra 
beneath) and tying it over her
head like a gypsy's scarf. High on pot and wine, she had read palms for the 
rest of the evening

. . . or at least until she had passed out.

Audra  could  not  remember  now  if  the  girl's  readings  had  been  good  
or  bad,  wit ty or stupid:
she  had  been  pretty  high  herself  that  night.  What  she  did  remember  
was  that  at  one  point  the
girl  had  grabbed  Bill's  palm  and  her  own  and  had  declared  them  
perfectly  matched.  They
were  life-twins,  she  said.  She  could  remember  watching,  more  than a 
little jealous, as the girl
traced  the  lines  on  his  palm  with  her  exquisitely  lacquered  
fingernail —  how  stupid  that  was,
in  the  weird  LA  film  subculture  where  men  patted  women's  fannies  as  
routinely  as  New  York
men  pecked  their  cheeks!  But  there  had  been  something  intimate  and  
lingering  about  that
tracery.

There had been no little white scars on Bill's palms then.

She  had  been  watching  the  charade  with  a  jealous  lover's  eye,  and  
she  was  sure  of  the
memory. Sure of the fact.

She said so to Bill now.

He  nodded.  'You're  right.  They  weren't  there  then.  And  although  I  
can't  absolutely  swear  to
it,  I  don't  think  they  were  there  last  night,  down  at  the  Plow  and 
 Barrow.  Ralph  and  I  were
hand-wrestling for beers again and I think I would have noticed.'

He grinned at her. The grin was dry, humorless, and scared.

'I think they came back when Mike Hanlon called. That's what I think.'
'Bill, that isn't possible.' But she reached for her cigarettes.

Bill  was  looking  at  his  hands.  'Sta n  did  it,'  he  said.  'Cut  our  
palms  with  a  sliver  of  Coke

bottle.  I  can  remember  it  so  clearly  now.'  He  looked  up  at  Audra  
and  behind  his  glasses  his
eyes were hurt and puzzled. 'I remember how that piece of glass flashed in the 
sun. It was one
of  the  new  clear  ones.  Before  that  Coke  bottles  used  to  be  green,  
you  remember  that?'  She
shook  her  head  but  he  didn't  see  her.  He  was  still  studying  his  
palms.  'I  can  remember  Stan
doing  his  own  hands  last,  pretending  he  was  going  to  slash  his  
wrists  instead  of  just cut his
palms  a  little.  I  guess  it  was  just  some  goof,  but  I  almost  made  
a  move  on  him  .  .  .  to  stop
him. Because for a second or two there he looked serious.'

'Bill,  don't,'  she  said  in  a  low  voice.  This  time  she  had  to  
steady  the  lighter  in  her  right hand
by  grasping  its  wrist  in  her  left,  like  a  policeman  holding  a  gun  
on  a  shooting  range.  'Scars
can't come back. They either are or aren't.'

'You saw them before, huh? Is that what you're telling me?'

'They're very faint,' Audra said, more sharply than she had intended,

'We  were  all  bleeding,'  he  said.  'We  were  standing  in  the  water  not 
 far  from  where  Eddie
Kaspbrak and Ben Hanscom and I built the dam that time — '

'You don't mean the architect, do you?'
'Is there one by that name?'

'God,  Bill,  he  built  the  new  BBC  communications  center!  They're  still 
 arguing  whether  it's
a dream or an abortion!'

'Well, I don't know if it's the same guy or not. It doesn't seem likely, but I 
guess it could be.
The  Ben  I  knew  was  great  at  building  stuff.  We  all  stood  there,  
and  I  was  holding  Bev
Marsh's  left  hand  in  my  right  and  Richie  Tozier's  right  hand  in  my  
left.  We  stood  out  there  in
the  water  like  something  out  of  a  Southern  baptism  after  a  tent  
meeting,  and  I  remember  I
could  see  the  Derry Standpipe  on  the  horizon.  It  looked  as  white  as  
you  imagine  the  robes  of


the  archangels  must  be,  and  we  promised,  we  swore,  that  if  it  
wasn't  over,  that  if  it  ever
started to happen again . . . we'd go back. And we'd do it again. And stop it. 
Forever.'

'Stop  what?  she  cried,  suddenly  furious  with  him.  'Stop  what'?  What  
the  fuck  are  you

talking about?'

'I  wish  you  wouldn't  a-a-ask  —  '  Bill  began,  and  then  stopped.  She  
saw  an  expression  of
bemused horror spread over his face like a stain. 'Give me a cigarette.'

She passed him the pack. He lit one. She had never seen him smoke a cigarette.
'I used to stutter, too.'

'You stuttered?'

'Yes.  Back  then.  You  said  I  was  the  only  man  in  LA  you  ever  knew  
who  dared  to  speak
slowly. The truth is,  I  didn't  dare  talk  fast.  It  wasn't  reflection.  
It  wasn't  deliberation.  It  wasn't
wisdom.  All  reformed  stutterers  speak  very  slowly.  It's  one  of  the  
tricks  you  learn,  like
thinking   of   your   middle   name   just   before   you   introduce   
yourself,   because   stutterers   have
more  trouble  with  nouns  than  with  any  other  words,  and  the  one  word 
 in  all  the  world  that
gives them the most trouble is their own first name.'

'Stuttered.' She smiled a small smile, as if he had told a joke and she had 
missed the point.

'Until  Georgie  died,  I  stuttered  moderately,'  Bill  said,  and  already  
he  had  begun  to  hear
words  double  in  his  mind,  as  if  they  were  infinitesimally  separated  
in  time;  the  words  came
out  smoothly,  in  his  ordinary  slow  and  cadenced  way,  but  in  his  
mind  he  heard  words like
Georgie  and  moderately  overlap, becoming  Juh-Juh-Georgie  and  
m-moderately.  'I mean, I
had  some  really  bad  moments   —  usually  when  I  was  called  on  in  
class,  and  especially  if  I
really  knew  the  answer  and wanted to give it  —  but mostly I got by. Afte 
r George died, it got
a  lot  worse.  Then,  around  the  age  of  fourteen  or  fifteen,  things  
started  to  get  better  again.  I
went  to  Chevrus  High  in  Portland,  and  there  was  a  speech  therapist  
there,  Mrs  Thomas,  who
was  really  great.  She  taught  me  some  good  tricks.  Like  thinking  of  
my  middle  name  just
before  I  said  "Hi,  I'm  Bill  Denbrough"  out  loud.  I  was  taking  
French  1  and  she  taught  me  to
switch  to  French  if  I  got  badly  stuck  on  a  word.  So  if  you're  
standing  there  feeling  like  the
world's   grandest   asshole,   saying  "th-th-this  buh-buh-buh-buh"  over  
and  over  like  a  broken
record,  you  switched  over  to  French  and  "ce  livre"   would  come  
flowing  off  your  tongue.
Worked every time. And as soon as you said it in French you could come back to 
English and
say  "this  book"  with  no  problem  at  all.  If  you  got  stuck  on  an  
s-word  like  ship  or  skate  or
slum, you could lisp it: thip, thkate, thlum. No stutter.

'All  of  that  helped,  but  mostly  it  was  just  forgetting  Derry  and  
everything  that  happened
there.  Because  that's  when  the  forgetting  happened.  When  we  were  
living  in  Portland  and  I
was going to Chevrus. I didn't forget everything at once, but looking back now 
I'd have to say
it  happened  over  a  remarkably  short  period  of  time.  Maybe  no  more  
than  four  months.  My
stutter  and  my  memories  faded  out  together.  Someone  washed  the  
blackboard  and  all  the  old
equations went away.'

He drank what was left of his juice. 'When I stuttered on "ask" a few seconds 
ago, that was
the first time in maybe twenty-one years.'

He looked at her.

'First the scars, then the stuh-hutter. Do you h-hear it?'
'You're doing that on purpose!' she said, badly frightened.

'No.  I  guess  there's  no  way  to  convince  a  person  of  that,  but  it's 
 true.  Stuttering's  funny,

Audra.  Spooky.  On  one  level  you're not even aware it's happening. But . . 
. it's also something
you  can  hear  in  your  mind.  It's  like  part  of  your  head  is  working  
an  instant  ahead  of  the  rest.
Or  one  of  those  reverb  systems  kids  used  to  put  in  their  jalopies  
back  in  the  fifties,  when  the
sound  in  the  rear  speaker  would  come  just  a  split  second  a-after  
the  sound  in  the  front  s-
speaker.'


He  got  up  and  walked  restlessly  around  the  room.  He  looked  tired,  
and  she  thought  with
some  unease  of  how  hard  he  had  worked  over  the  last  thirteen  years  
or  so,  as  if  it  might  be
possible  to  justify  the  moderateness  of  his  talent  by  working  
furiously,  almost  non-stop.  She
found  herself  having  a  very  uneasy  thought  and  tried  to  push  it  
away,  but  it  wouldn't  go.
Suppose  Bill's  call  had  really  been  from  Ralph  Foster,  inviting  him  
down  to  the  Plow  and
Barrow  for  an  hour  of  arm-wrestling  or  backgammon,  or  maybe  from  
Freddie  Firestone,  the
producer of  Attic Room,  on some problem or other? Perhaps even a 
'wrong-ring,' as the veddy
British doctor's wife down the lane put it?

What did such thoughts lead to?

Why,  to  the  idea  that  all  this  Derry-Mike  Hanlon  business  was  
nothing  but  a  hallucination.

A hallucination brought on by an incipient nervous breakdown.

But the scars, Audra  — how do you explain the scars? He's right. They weren't  
there . . .
and now they are. That's the truth, and you know it.

'Tell me the rest,' she said. 'Who killed your brother George? What did you and 
these other

children do? What did you promise?'

He went to her, knelt  before her like an oldfashioned suitor about to propose 
marriage, and
took her hands.

'I think I could tell you,' he said softly. 'I think that if I really wanted 
to, I could. Most of it
I  don't  remember  even  now,  but  once  I  started  talking  it  would  
come.  I  can  sense  those
memories  .  .  .  waiting  to  be  born.  They're  like  clouds  filled  with  
rain.  Only  this  rain  would  be
very  dirty.  The  plants  that  grew  after  a  rain  like  that  would  be  
monsters.  Maybe  I  can  face
that with the others — '

'Do they know?'

'Mike said he called them all. He thinks they'll all come . . . except maybe 
for Stan. He said
Stan sounded strange.'

'It all sounds strange to me. You're frightening me very badly, Bill.'

'I'm  sorry,'  he  said,  and  kissed  her.  It  was  like  getting  a  kiss  
from  an  utter  stranger.  She
found  herself  hating  this  man  Mike  Hanlon.  'I  thought  I  ought  to  
explain  as  much  as  I  could;  I
thought  that  would  be  better  than  just  creeping  off  into  the  night.  
I  suppose  some  of  them  may
do  just  that.  But  I  have  to  go.  And  I  think  Stan  will  be  there,  
no  matter  how  strange  he
sounded. Or maybe that's just because I can't imagine not going myself.'

'Because of your brother?'

Bill  shook  his  head  slowly.  'I  could  tell  you  that,  but  it  would  
be  a  lie.  I  loved  him. I know
how  strange  that  must  sound  after  telling  you  I  haven't  thought  of  
him  in  twenty  years  or  so,
but I loved the  hell  out  of  that  kid.'  He  smiled  a  little.  'He  was  
a  spasmoid,  but  I  loved  him.
You know?'

Audra, who had a younger sister, nodded. 'I know.'
'But it isn't George. I can't explain what it is. I . . . '
He looked out the window at the morning fog.

'I feel like a bird must feel when fall comes and it knows . . . somehow it 
just knows it has
to  fly  home.  It's  instinct,  babe  .  . .  and  I  guess  I  believe  
instinct's  the  iron  skeleton  under  all
our ideas of free will. Unless you're willing to take the pipe or eat the gun 
or take a long walk
off  a  short  dock,  you  can't  say  no  to  some  things.  You  can't  
refuse  to  pick  up  your  option
because there is no option. You can't stop it from happening any more than you 
could stand at
home  plate  with  a  bat  in  your  hand  and  let  a  fastball  hit  you.  I  
have  to  go.  That  promise  .  .  .
it's  in my mind like a fuh-fishhook.'

She  stood  up  and  walked  herself  carefully  to  him;  she  felt  very  
fragile,  as  if  she  might
break. She put a hand on his shoulder and turned him to her.

'Take me with you, then.'


The  expression  of  horror  that  dawned  on  his  face  then  —  not  horror  
of  her but  for her  —
was so naked that she stepped back, really afraid for the first time.

'No,'  he  said.  'Don't  think  of  that,  Audra.  Don't  you  ever  think  of 
 that.  You're  not  going
within  three  thousand  miles  of  Derry.  I  think  Derry's  going  to  be  a 
 very  bad  place  to  be
during  the  next  couple  of  weeks.  You're  going  to  stay  here  and  
carry  on  and  make  all  the
excuses for me you have to. Now promise me that!'

'Should I promise?' she asked, her eyes never leaving his. 'Should I, Bill?'
'Audra — '

'Should  I?  You  made  a  promise,  and look what it's got you into. And me as 
well, since I'm

your wife and I love you.'

His  big  hands  tightened  painfully  on  her  shoulders.  'Promise  me!  
Promise!  P-Puh-Puh-
Pruh-huh — '

And  she  could  not  stand  that,  that  broken  word  caught  in  his  mouth  
like  a  gaffed  and
wriggling fish.

'I  promise,  okay?  I  promise!'  She  burst  into  tears.  'Are  you  happy  
now?  Jesus!  You're
crazy, the whole thing is crazy, but I promise!'

He put an arm around her and led her to the couch. Brought her a brandy. She  
sipped at it,
getting herself under control a little at a time.

'When do you go, then?'

'Today,'  he  said.  'Concorde.  I  can  just  make  it  if  I  drive  to  
Heathrow  instead  of  taking  the
train.  Freddie  wanted  me  on-set  after  ranch.  You  go  on  ahead  at  
nine, and you don't know
anything, you see?'

She nodded reluctantly.

'I'll  be  in  New  York  before  anything  shows  up  funny.  And  in  Derry  
before  sundown,  with
the right c-c-connections.'

'And when do I see you again?' she asked softly.

He put an arm around her and held her tightly, but he never answered her 
question.


'How  many  human  eyes  .  .  .  had  snatched  glimpses  of  their    secret  
anatomies,  down  the
passage of years?'

— Clive Barker,

Books of Blood


The   segment   below   and   all   other   Interlude   segments   are   drawn  
 from   'Derry:   An
Unauthorized  Town  History,'  by  Michael  Hanlon.  This  is  an  unpublished  
set  of  notes  and
accompanying fragments of manuscript (which read almost like diary entries) 
found in the
Derry Public Library vault. The title given is the one written on the cover of 
the looseleaf
binder in which these notes were kept prior to their appearance here. The 
author, however,
refers to the work several times within his own notes as 'Derry: A Look Through 
Hell's Back
Door.'

One  supposes the thought of popular publication had done more than cross Mr 
Hanlon's
mind.

January 2nd, 1985

Can an entire city be haunted?

Haunted as some houses are supposed to be haunted?

Not  just  a  single  building  in  that  city,  or  the  corner  of  a   
single  street,  or  a  single  basketball
court  in  a  single  pocket-park,  the  netless  basket  jutting  out  at  
sunset  like  some  obscure  and
bloody instrument of torture, not just one area

— but everything. The whole works.
Can that be?

Listen:

Haunted: 'Often visited by ghosts or spirits.' Funk and Wagnalls.

Haunting: 'Persistently recurring to the mind; difficult to forget.' Ditto Funk 
and Friend.
To haunt: 'To appear or recur often, especially as a ghost.' But — and listen!

— 'A place often visited: resort, den, hangout . . . ' Italics are of course 
mine.

And  one  more.  This  one,  like  the  last,  is  a  definition  of haunt  as  
a  noun,  and  it's  the  one
that really scares me: '.A feeding place for animals.'

Like the animals that beat up Adrian Mellon and then threw him over the bridge?
Like the animal that was waiting underneath the bridge?

A feeding place for animals.

What's feeding in Derry? What's feeding on Derry?

You  know,  it's  sort  of  interesting  —  I  didn't  know  it  was possible 
for a man to become as
frightened   as   I   have   become   since   the   Adrian   Mellon   business  
 and   still   live,   let   alone
function.  It's  as  if  I've  fallen  into  a  story,  and  everyone  knows  
you're  not  supposed  to  feel  this
afraid  until  the  end  of  the  story,  when  the  haunter  of  the  dark  
finally  comes  out  of  the
woodwork to feed . . . on you, of course.

On you.

But  if  this  is  a  story,  it's  not  one  of  those  classic  screamers  by 
 Lovecraft  or  Bradbury  or
Poe. I know, you see  —  not  everything,  but  a  lot.  I  didn't just start 
when I opened the Derry
News  one  day  last  September,  read  the  transcript  of  the  Unwin  boy's  
preliminary  hearing,  and
realized  that  the  clown  who  killed  George  Denbrough  might  well  be  
back  again.  I  actually
started around 1980  —  I think that is when some part of me which had been 
asleep woke up .

. . knowing that Its time might be coming round again.

What part? The watchman part, I suppose.

Or maybe it was the voice of the Turtle. Yes . . . I rather think it was that. 
I know it's what
Bill Denbrough would believe.

I  discovered  news  of  old  horrors  in  old  books;  read  intelligence  of  
old  atrocities  in  old

periodicals;  always  in  the  back  of  my  mind,  every  day  a  bit  louder, 
 I  heard  the  seashell  drone
of  some  growing,  coalescing  force;   I  seemed  to  smell  the  bitter  
ozone  aroma  of  lightnings-to-
come.  I  began  making  notes  for  a  book  I  will  almost  certainly  not  
live  to  write.  And  at  the
same time I went on with my life. On one level of my mind I was and am living 
with the most


grotesque,  capering  horrors;  on  another  I  have  continued  to  live  the  
mundane  life  of  a  small-
city  librarian.  I  shelve  books;  I  make  out  library  cards  for  new  
patrons;  I  turn  off  the
microfilm  readers  careless  users  sometimes  leave  on;  I  joke  with  
Carole  Danner  about  how
much   I would like to go to bed with her, and she jokes back about how much 
she'd like to go
to bed with me, and both of us know that she's really joking and I'm really 
not, just as both of
us  know  that  she  won't  stay  in  a  little  place  like  Derry  for  long  
and I will be here until I die,
taping  torn  pages  in  Business  Week,   sitting  down  at  monthly  
acquisition  meetings  with  my
pipe in one hand and a stack  of Library Journals  in the other . . . and 
waking in the middle of
the night with my fists jammed against my mouth to keep in the screams.

The  gothic  conventions  are  all  wrong.  My  hair  has  not  turned  white.  
I  do  not  sleepwalk.  I
have  not  begun  to  make  cryptic  comments  or  to  carry  a  planchette  
around  in  my  sportcoat
pocket.  I  think  I  laugh  a  little  more,  that's  all,  and  sometimes  it 
 must  seem  a  little  shrill  and
strange, because sometimes people look at me oddly when I laugh.

Part  of  me  —  the part Bill would call the voice of the Turtle  — says I 
should call them all,
tonight.  But  am  I,  even  now,  completely  sure?  Do  I  want  to  be  
completely  sure?  No   — of
course  not.  But  God,  what  happened  to  Adrian  Mellon  is  so  much  like 
 what  happened  to
Stuttering Bill's brother, George, in the fail of 1957.

If it  has  started again, I  will  call  them.  I'll  have  to.  But  not yet. 
It's too early anyway. Last
time  it  began  slowly  and  didn't  really  get  going  until  the  summer  
of  1958.  So  .  .  .  I  wait.  And
fill  up  the  waiting  with  words  in  this  notebook and  long  moments  of  
looking  into  the  mirror
to see the stranger the boy became.

The  boy's  face  was  bookish  and  timid;  the  man's  face  is  the  face  
of  a  bank  teller  in  a

Western movie, the fellow who never has any lines, the one who just gets to put 
his hands up
and  look  scared  when  the  robbers  come  in.  And  if  the  script  calls  
of r  anyone  to  get  shot  by
the bad guys, he's the one.

Same  old  Mike.  A  little  starey  in  the  eyes,  maybe,  and  a  little  
punchy  from  broken  sleep,
but  not  so's  you'd  notice  without  a  good  close  look  .  .  .  like  
kissing-distance  close,  and  I
haven't  been  that  close  to  anyone  in  a  very  long  time.  If  you  took 
 a  casual  glance  at  me  you
might think  He's  been  reading  too  many  books,  but  that's  all.  I  
doubt  you'd  guess  how  hard
the  man  with  the  mild  bank-teller's  face  is  now  struggling  just  to  
hold  on,  to  hold  on  to his
own mind . . . .

If I have to make those calls, it may kill some of them.

That's  one  of  the  things  I've  had  to  face  on  the  long  nights  when  
sleep  won't  come,  nights
when  I  lie  there  in  bed  wearing  my  conservative  blue  pajamas,  my  
spectacles  neatly folded up
and  lying  on  the  nighttable  next  to  the  glass  of  water  I  always  
put  there  in  case  I  wake  up
thirsty in the night. I lie there in the dark and I take small sips of the 
water and I wonder how
much —  or how little  —  they  remember.  I  am  somehow  convinced  that  
they  don't  remember
any  of it, because they don't  need  to  remember.  I'm  the  only  one  that  
hears  the  voice  of  the
Turtle, the only one who remembers, because I'm the only one who stayed here in 
Derry. And
because   they're   scattered   to   the   four  winds,  they  have  no  way  
of  knowing  the  identical
patterns  their  lives  have  taken.  To  bring  them  back,  to  show  them  
that  pattern  .  .  .  yes,  it
might kill some of them. It might kill all of them.

So I go over it and over it in my mind; I go over  them, trying to re-create 
them as they were
and  as  they  might  now  be,  trying  to  decide  which  of  them  is  the  
most  vulnerable.  Richie
'Trashmouth'   Tozier,   I   think   sometimes   —   he  was  the  one  Criss,  
Huggins,  and  Bowers
seemed  to  catch  up  with  the  most  often,  in  spite of the fact that Ben 
was so fat. Bowers was
the  one  Richie  was  the  most  scared  of  —  the one we were all the most 
scared of  — but the
others  used  to  really  put  the  fear  of  God  into  him,  too.  If  I  
call  him  out  there  in  California
would  he  see  it  as  some  horrible  Return  of  the  Big  Bullies,  two  
from  the  grave  and  one  from
the  madhouse  in  Juniper  Hill  where  he  raves  to  this  day?  Sometimes  
I  think  Eddie  was  the


weakest,   Eddie   with   his   domineering   tank   of   a   mother   and   
his   terrible   case   of   asthma.
Beverly?  She  always  tried  to  talk  so  tough,  but  she  was  as  scared  
as  the  rest  of  us.  Stuttering
Bill,  faced  with  a  horror  that  won't  go  away  when  he  puts  the  
cover  on  his  typewriter?  Stan
Uris?

There's  a  guillotine  blade  hanging  over  their  lives,  razor-sharp,  but  
the  more  I  think  about  it
the more I think they don't know that blade is there. I'm the one with my hand 
on the lever. I
can pull it just by opening my telephone notebook and calling them, one after 
the other.

Maybe  I  won't  have  to  do  it.  I  hold  on  to  the  waning  hope  that  
I've  mistaken the rabbity
cries  of  my  own  timid  mind  for  the  deeper,  truer  voice  of  the  
Turtle.  After  all,  what  do  I
have?  Mellon  in  July.  A  child  found  dead  on  Neibolt  Street  last  
October,  another  found  in
Memorial  Park  in  early  December, just before the first snowfall. Maybe it 
was a tramp, as the
papers  say.  Or  a  crazy  who's  since  left  Derry  or  killed  himself  out 
 of  remorse  and  self-disgust,
as some of the books say the real Jack the Ripper may have done.

Maybe.

But  the  Albrecht  girl  was  found  directly  across  the  street  from  that 
 damned  old  house  on
Neibolt  Street  .  .  .  and  she  was  killed  on  the  same  day  as  George 
 Denbrough  was,  twenty-
seven  years  before.  And  then  the  Johnson  boy,  found  in  Memorial  Park 
 with  one  of  his  legs
missing  below  the  knee.  Memorial  Park  is,  of  course,  the  home  of  
the  Derry  Standpipe,  and
the  boy  was  found  almost  at  its  foot.  The  Standpipe  is  within  a  
shout  of  the  Barrens;  the
Standpipe is also where Stan Uris saw those boys.

Those dead boys.

Still,  it  could  all  be  nothing  but  smoke  and  mirages.  Could  be. Or 
coincidence. Or perhaps
something between the two  —  a kind of malefic echo. Could that be? I sense 
that it could be.
Here in Derry, anything could be.

I  think  what  was  here  before  is  still  here  —  the  thing  that  was  
here  in  1957  and  1958;  the
thing that was here in 1929 and in 1930 when the Black Spot was burned down by 
the Maine
Legion  of  White  Decency;  the  thing  that  was  here  ha  1904  and  1905  
and  early  1906  — at
least  until  the  Kitchener  Ironworks  exploded;  the  thing  that  was  here 
 in  1876  and  1877,  the
thing  that  has  shown  up  every  twenty-seven  years  or  so.  Sometimes  it 
 comes  a  little  sooner,
sometimes a little later . . . but it always comes. As one goes back the wrong 
notes are harder
and  harder  to  find  because  the  records  grow  poorer  and  the  
moth-holes  in  the  narrative
history  of  the  area  grow  bigger.  But  knowing  where  to  look  —  and 
when to look   —  goes a
long way toward solving the problem. It always comes back, you see.

It.

So —  yes: I think I'll have to make those calls. I think it was meant to be 
us. Somehow, for
some  reason,  we're  the  ones  who  have  been  elected  to  stop  it  
forever.  Blind  fate?  Blind  luck?
Or  is  it  that  damned  Turtle  again?  Does  it  perhaps  command  as  well  
as  speak?  I don't know.
And  I  doubt  if  it  matters.  All  those  years  ago  Bill  said  The Turtle 
can't help us,  and if it was
true then it must be true now.

I  think  of  us  standing  in  the  water,  hands  clasped,  making  that  
promise  to  come  back  if  it
ever started again  —  standing there almost like Druids in a ring, our hands 
bleeding their own
promise,  palm  to  palm.  A  ritual  that  is  perhaps  as  old  as  mankind  
itself,  an  unknowing  tap
driven  into  the  tree  of  all  power  —  the  one  that  grows  on  the  
borderline  between  the  land  of
all we know and that of all we suspect.

Because the similarities —

But  I'm  doing  my  own  Bill  Denbrough  here,  stuttering  over  the  same  
ground  again  and
again,  reciting  a  few  facts  and  a  lot  of  unpleasant  (and  rather  
gaseous)  suppositions,  growing
more  and  more  obsessive  with  every  paragraph.  No  good.  Useless.  
Dangerous,  even.  But  it  is
so very hard to wait on events.


This  notebook  is  supposed  to  be  an  effort  to  get  beyond  that  
obsession  by  widening  the
focus of my attention  —  after  all,  there  is  more  to  this  story  than  
six  boys  and  one  girl,  none
of  them  happy,  none  of  them  accepted  by  their  peers,  who  stumbled  
into  a  nightmare  during
one  hot  summer  when  Eisenhower  was  still  President.  It  is  an  attempt 
 to  pull  the  camera  back
a  little,  if  you will  —  to  see  the  whole  city,  a  place  where  
nearly  thirty-five thousand people
work  and  eat  and  sleep  and  copulate  and  shop  and  drive  around  and  
walk  and  go  to  school
and go to jail and sometimes disappear into the dark.

To  know  what  a  place  is,  I  really do believe one has to know what it  
was.  And if I had to
name  a  day  when  all  of  this  really  started  again  for  me,  it  would  
be  the  day  in  the  early  spring
of  1980  when  I  went  to  see  Albert  Carson,  who  died  last  summer  —  
at  ninety-one, he was
full  of  years  as  well  as  honors.  He  was  head  librarian  here  from  
1914  to  1960,  an  incredible
span  (but  he  was  an  incredible  man),  and  I  felt  that  if  anyone  
would  know  which  history  of
this  area  was  the  best  one  to  start  with,  Albert  Carson  would.  I  
asked  him  my  question as we
sat  on  his  porch  and  he  gave  me  my  answer,  speaking  in  a  croak  —  
he was already fighting
the throat-cancer which would eventually kill him.

'Not one of them is worth a shit. As you damn well know.'
'Then where should I start?'

'Start what, for Christ's sake?'

'Researching the history of the area. Of Derry Township.'

'Oh. Well. Start with the Fricke and the Michaud. They're supposed to be the 
best.'
'And after I read those — '

'Read  them?  Christ,  no!  Throw  em  in  the  wastebasket!  That's  your  
first  step.  Then  read

Buddinger.  Branson  Buddinger  was  a  damned  sloppy  researcher  and  
afflicted  with  a  terminal
boner, if half of what I heard when I was a kid was true, but when it came to 
Derry his heart
was  in  the  right  place.  He  got most  of  the  facts  wrong,  but  he  got 
 them  wrong  with  feeling,
Hanlon.'

I  laughed  a  little  and  Carson  grinned  with  his  leathery  lips  —  an  
expression  of  good  humor
that  was  actually  a  little  frightening.  In  that  instant  he  looked  
like  a  vulture  happily  guarding
a  freshly  killed  animal,  waiting  for  it  to  reach  exactly  the  right  
stage  of  tasty  decomposition
before beginning to dine.

'When  you  finish  with  Buddinger,  read  Ives.  Make  notes  on  all  the  
people  he  talked  to.
Sandy  Ives  is  still  at  the  University  of  Maine.  Folklorist.  After  
you  read  him,  go  see  him.  Buy
him a dinner. I'd take him to the Orinoka, because dinner at the Orinoka seems 
to  never  end.
Pump  him.  Fill  up  a  notebook  with  names  and  addresses.  Talk  to  the  
old-timers he's talked to

— those that are still left; there are a few of us, ah-hah-hah-hah! — and get 
some more names
from  them.  By  then  you'll  have  all  the  place  to  stand  you'll  need,  
if  you're  half  as  bright  as  I
think  you  are.  If  you  chase  down  enough  people,  you'll  find  out  a  
few  things that aren't in the
histories. And you may find they disturb your sleep.'

'Derry . . . '
'What about it?'

'Derry's not right, is it?'

'Right?'  he  asked  in  that  whispery  croak.  'What's  right?  What  does  
that  word  mean?  Is
"right"  pretty  pictures  of  the  Kenduskeag  at  sunset,  Kodachrome  by  
so-and-so,  f-stop  such-
and-such?  If  so,  then  Derry  is  right,  because  there  are  pretty  
pictures  of  it  by  the  score.  Is
right  a  damned  committee  of  dry-boxed  old  virgins  to  save  the  
Governor's  Mansion  or  to  put
a  commemorative  plaque  in  front  of  the  Standpipe?  If  that's  right,  
then  Derry's  right  as  rain,
because  we've  got  more  than  our  share  of  old  kitty-cats  minding  
everybody's  business.  Is
right  that  ugly  plastic  statue  of  Paul  Bunyan  in  front  of  City  
Center? Oh, if I had a truckful of
napalm  and  my  old  Zippo  lighter  I'd  take  care  of that  fucking  thing, 
 I  assure  you  .  .  .  but  if


one's  aesthetic  is  broad  enough  to  include  plastic  statues,  then  
Derry  is  right.  The  question  is,
what does right mean to you, Hanlon? Eh? More to the point, what does right not 
mean?'

I  could  only  shake  my  head.  He  either  knew  or  he  didn't.  He  would  
either  tell  or  he
wouldn't.

'Do  you  mean  the  unpleasant  stories  you  may  hear,  or  the  ones  you  
already  know?  There
are  always  unple asant  stories.  A  town's  history  is  like  a  rambling  
old  mansion  filled  with
rooms  and  cubbyholes  and  laundry-chutes  and  garrets  and  all  sorts  of  
eccentric  little  hiding
places  .  .  .  not  to  mention  an  occasional  secret  passage  or  two.  
If  you  go  exploring  Mansion
Derry,  you'll  find  all  sorts  of  things.  Yes.  You  may  be  sorry  
later,  but  you'll  find  them,  and
once a thing is found it can't be unfound, can it? Some of the rooms are 
locked, but there are
keys . . . there are keys.'

His eyes glinted at me with an old man's shrewdness.

'You  may  come  to  think  you've  stumbled  on  the  worst  of  Derry's  
secrets  .  .  .  but  there  is
always one more. And one more. And one more.'

'Do you — '

'I think I shall have to ask you to excuse me just now. My throat is very bad 
today. It's time
for my medicine and my nap.'

In other words, here is a knife and a fork, my friend; go see what you can cut 
with them.

I  started  with  the  Fricke  history  and  the  Michaud  history.  I  
followed  Carson's  advice  and
threw  them  in  the wastebasket, but I read them first. They were as bad as he 
had suggested. I
read  the  Buddinger  history,  copied  out  the  footnotes,  and  chased  them 
 down.  That  was  more
satisfactory,  but  footnotes  are  peculiar  things,  you  know  -  like  
footpaths  twisting  through a
wild  and  anarchic  country.  They  split,  then  they  split  again;  at  any 
 point  you  may  take  a
wrong  turn  which  leads  you  either  to  a  bramble-choked  dead  end  or  
into  swampy  quickmud.
'If  you  find  a  footnote,'  a  library-science prof once told a class of 
which I was a part, 'step on
its head and kill it before it can breed.'

They do  breed, and sometimes the breeding is a good thing, but I think that 
more often it is
not.  Those  in  Buddinger's  stiffly  written A  History  of  Old  Derry   
(Orono:  University  of  Maine
Press,  1950)  wander  through  one  hundred  years'  worth  of  forgotten  
books  and  dusty  master's
dissertations  in  the  fields  of  history  and  folklore,  through  articles  
in  defunct  magazines,  and
amid brain-numbing stacks of town reports and ledgers.

My  conversations  with  Sandy  Ives  were  more  interesting.  His  sources  
crossed  Buddinger's
from time to time, but a crossing was all it ever was. Ives had spent a good 
part of his lifetime
setting  down  oral  histories   —  yarns,  in  other  words   —  almost  
verbatim,  a  practice Branson
Buddinger would undoubtedly have seen as taking the low road.

Ives  had  written  a  cycle  of  articles  on  Derry  during  the  years  
1963-66.  Most  of  the  old -
timers  he  talked  to  then  were  dead  by  the  time  I  started  my  own  
investigations,  but  they had
sons,  daughters,  nephews,  cousins.  And,  of  course,  one  of  the  great  
true  facts  of  the  world  is
this:  for  every  old-timer  who  dies,  there's  a  new  old-timer  coming  
along.  And  a  good  story
never dies; it is always passed down. I sat on a lot of porches and back 
stoops, drank a lot of
tea, Black Label beer, homemade beer, homemade rootbeer, tapwater, springwater. 
I did a lot
of listening, and the wheels of my tape-player turned.

Both   Buddinger   and   Ives   agreed   completely   on   one   point:   the   
original   party  of  white
settlers  numbered  about  three  hundred.  They  were  English.  They  had  a  
charter  and  were
formally  known  as  the  Derrie  Company.  The  land  granted  them  covered  
what  is  today  Derry,
most   of  Newport,  and  little  slices  of  the  surrounding  towns.  And  in 
 the year 1741 everyone in
Derry  Township  just  disappeared.  They  were  there  in  June  of  that  
year  —  a  community
which  at  that  time  numbered  about  three  hundred  and  forty  souls  —  
but  come  October  they
were  gone.  The  little  village  of  wooden  homes  stood  utterly  deserted. 
 One  of  them,  which
once  stood  roughly  at  the  place  where  Witcham  and  Jackson  Streets  
intersect  today,  was


burned   to   the   ground.   The   Michaud   history   states   firmly   that  
 all   of   the   villagers   were
slaughtered  by  Indians,  but  there  is  no  basis  —  save  the  one  burned 
 house  — for that idea.
More likely, someone's stove just got too hot and the house went up in flames.

Indian  massacre?  Doubtful.  No  bones,  no  bodies.  Flood?  Not  that  year. 
 Disease?  No  word
of it in the surrounding towns.

They just disappeared. All of them. All three hundred and forty of them. 
Without a trace.

So  far  as  I  know,  the  only  case  remotely  like  it  in  American  
history  is  the  disappearance  of
the  colonists  on  Roanoke  Island,  Virginia.  Every  school-child  in  the  
country  knows about  that
one,  but  who  knows  about  the  Derry  disappearance?  Not  even  the  
people  who  live  here,
apparently.  I  quizzed  several  junior-high  students  who  are  taking  the  
required  Maine -history
course,  and  none  of  them  knew  a  thing  about  it.  Then  I  checked  the 
text,  Maine Then and
Now.  There  are  better  than  forty  index  entries  for  Derry,  most  of  
them  concerning  the  boom
years  of  the  lumber  industry.  Nothing  about  the  disappearance  of  the  
original  colonists  .  .  .
and yet that — what shall I call it? — that quiet fits the pattern, too.

There  is  a  kind  of  curtain  of  quiet  which  cloaks  much  of  what  has  
happened  here  .  .  .  and
yet people  do  talk.  I  guess  nothing  can  stop  people  from  talking.  
But  you  have  to  listen  hard,
and  that  is  a  rare  skill.  I  flatter  myself  that  I've  developed  it  
over  the  last  four  years.  If  I
haven't,  then  my  aptitude  for  the  job  must  be  poor  indeed,  because  
I've  had  enough  practice.
An  old  man  told  me  about  how  his  wife  had  heard  voices  speaking  to 
 her  from  the  drain  of
her  kitchen  sink  in  the  three  weeks  before  their  daughter  died  —  
that  was  in  the  early  winter
of  1957-58.  The  girl  he  spoke  of  was  one  of  the  early  victims  in  
the  murder-spree  which
began with George Denbrough and did not end until the following summer.

'A  whole  slew  of  voices,  all  of  em  babblin  together,'  he  told  me.  
He  owned  a  Gulf  station
on  Kansas  Street  and  talked  in  between  slow,  limping  trips  out  to  
the  pumps,  where  he  filled
gas-tanks,  checked  oil-levels,  and  wiped  windshields.  'Said  she  spoke  
back  once,  even  though
she     was  ascairt.  Leaned  right  over  the  dram,  she  did,  and  
hollered  down  into  it.  "Who  the  hell
are  you?"  she  calls.  "What's  your  name?"  And  all  these  voices  
answered  back,  she  said   —
grunts,  and  babbles  and  howls  and  yips,  screams  and  laughin,  don't  
you know.  And  she  said
they  were  sayin  what  the  possessed  man  said  to  Jesus:  "Our  name  is  
Legion,"  they  said.  She
wouldn't  go  near  that  sink  for  two  years.  For  them  two  years  I'd  
spend  twelve  hours  a  day
down here, bustin my hump, then have to go home and warsh all the damn dishes.'

He  was  drinking  a  can  of  Pepsi  from  the  machine  outside  the  office  
door,  a  man  of
seventy-two or   -three  in  faded  gray  work  fatigues,  rivers  of  wrinkles 
 flowing  down  from  the
corners of his eyes and mouth.

'By  now  you  prob'ly think I'm as crazy as a bedbug,' he said, 'but I'll tell 
you sumpin else, if
you'll turn off y 'whirligig, there.'

I  turned  off  my  tape-recorder  and  smiled  at  him.  'Considering  some  
of  the  things  I've  heard


over  the  last  couple  of  years,  you'd  have  ot
crazy,' I said.

go  a  fair  country  distance  to  convince  me  you're

He  smiled  back,  but  there  was  no  humor  in  it.  'I  was  doin  the  
dishes  one  night,  same  as
usual  —  this  was  in  the  fall  of  '58,  after  things  had  settled  down 
 again.  My  wife  was  upstair,
sleepin.  Betty  was  the  only  kid  God  ever  saw  fit  to  give  us,  and  
after  she  was  killed  my  wife
spent  a  lot  of  her  time  sleepin.  Anyway,  I  pulled  the  plug  and  the 
 water  started  runnin  out  of
the sink. You know the sound real soapy water makes when it goes down the 
drain? Kind of a
suckin  sound,  it  is.  It  was  makin  that  noise,  but  I  wasn't  thinkin  
about  it,  only  about  goin  out
and  choppin  some  kindlin  in  the  shed,  and  just  as  that  sound  
started  to  die  off,  I  heard  my
daughter  down  in  there.  I  heard  Betty  somewhere  down  in  those  
friggin  pipes.  Laughin.  She
was   somewheres   down   there   in   the   dark,   laughin.   Only   it   
sounded   more   like   she   was
screamin,  once  you  listened  a  bit.  Or  both.  Screamin  and  laughin  
down  there  in  the  pipes.


That's  the  only  time  I  ever  heard  anything  like  that.  Maybe  I  just  
imagined  it.  But  .  .  .  I  don't
think so.'

He   looked   at   me   and   I   looked   at   him.   The   light   falling   
through   the   dirty   plate-glass
windows  onto  his  face  filled  him  up  with  years,  made  him  look  as  
ancient  as  Methuselah.  I
remember how cold I felt at that moment; how cold.

'You  think  I'm  storying  you  along?'  the  old  man  asked  me,  the  old  
man  who would have
been  just  about  forty-five  in  1957,  the  old  man  to  whom  God  had  
given  a  single  daughter,
Betty  Ripsom  by  name.  Betty  had  been found on Outer Jackson Street just 
after Christmas of
that year, frozen, her remains ripped wide open.

'No,' I said. 'I don't think you're just storying me along, Mr Ripsom.'

'And you're tellin the truth, too,' he said with a land of wonder. 'I can see 
it on y'face.'

I  think  he  meant  to  tell  me  something  more  then,  but  the  bell  
behind  us  dinged  sharply  as  a
car  rolled  over  the  hose  on  the  tarmac  and  pulled  up  to  the  pumps. 
 When  the  bell  rang,  both
of  us  jumped  and  I  uttered  a  thin  little  cry.  Ripsom  got  to  his  
feet  and  limped  out  to  the  car,
wiping his hands on a ball of waste. When he came back in, he looked at me as 
though I were
a  rather  unsavory  stranger  who  had  just  happened  to  wander  in  off  
the  street.  I  made  my
goodbyes and left.

Buddinger  and  Ives  agree  on  some  tiling  else:  things  really  are  not  
right  here  in  Derry;
things in Derry have never been right.

I  saw  Albert  Carson  for  the  last  time  a  scant  month  before  he  
died.  His  throat  had  gotten
much  worse;  all  he  could  manage  was  a  hissing  little  whisper.  'Still 
 thinking  about  writing  a
history of Derry, Hanlon?'

'Still toying with the idea,' I said, but I had of course never planned to 
write a history of the
township — not exactly — and I think he knew it.

'It  would  take  you  twenty  years,'  he  whispered,  'and  no  one  would  
read  it.  No  one  would

want to read it. Let it go, Hanlon.'

He paused a moment and then added:

'Buddinger committed suicide, you know.'

Of  course  I  had  known  that  —  but  only  because  people  always  talk  
and  I  had  learned  to
listen.  The  article  in  the  News  had  called  it  a  falling  accident,  
and  it  was  true  that  Branson
Buddinger  had  taken  a  fall.  What  the  News  neglected  to  mention  was  
that  he  fell  from  a  stool
in his closet and he had a noose around his neck at the time.

'You know about the cycle?'
I looked at him, startled.

'Oh  yes,'  Carson  whispered.  'I  know.  Every  twenty-six  or  twenty-seven  
years.  Buddinger
knew,  too.  A  lot  of  the  old -timers do, although that is one thing they 
won't talk  about, even if
you load them up with booze. Let it go, Hanlon.'

He  reached  out  with  one  bird-claw hand. He closed it around my wrist and I 
could feel the
hot  cancer  that  was  loose  and  raving  through  his  body,  eating  
anything  and  everything  left
that  was still good to eat  —  not that there could have been much by that 
time; Albert Carson's
cupboards were almost bare.

'Michael  —  this  is  nothing  you  want  to  mess  into.  There  are  things  
here  in  Derry  that  bite.

Let it go. Let it go.'

'I can't.'

'Then  beware,'  he  said.  Suddenly  the  huge  and  frightened  eyes  of  a  
child  were  looking  out
of his dying old-man's face. 'Beware.'

Derry.

My home town. Named after the county of the same name in Ireland.
Derry.


I  was  born  here,  in  Derry  Home  Hospital;  attended  Derry  Elementary  
School;  went  to
junior  high  at  Ninth  Street  Middle  School;  to  high  school  at  Derry  
High.  I  went  to  the
University  of  Maine  —  'ain't  in  Derry,  but  it's  just  down  the  rud,' 
 the  old-timers say  — and
then  I  came  right  back  here.  To  the  Derry  Public  Library.  I  am  a  
small-town  man  living  a
small-town life, one among millions.

But.

But:

In 1851 a crew of lumber jacks found the remains of another crew that had spent 
the winter
snowed  in  at  a  camp  on  the  Upper  Kenduskeag  —  at  the  tip  of  what  
the  kids  still  call  the
Barrens. There were nine of them in all, all nine hacked to pieces. Heads had 
rolled . . . not to
mention arms . . . a foot or two . . . and a man's penis had been nailed to one 
wall of the cabin.

But:

In  1851  John  Markson  killed  his  entire  family  with  poison  and  then,  
sitting  in  the  middle  of
the  circle  he  had  made  with  their  corpses,  he  gobbled  an  entire  
'white-nightshade' mushroom.
His  death  agonies  must  have  been  intense.  The  town  constable  who  
found  him  wrote  in  his
report  that  at  first  he  believed  the  corpse  was  grinning  at  him;  he 
 wrote  of  'Markson's  awful
white  smile.'  The  white  smile  was  an  entire  mouthful  of  the  killer  
mushroom;  Markson  had
gone  on  eating  even  as  the  cramps  and  the  excruciating  muscle  spasms 
 must  have  been
wracking his dying body.

But:

On  Easter  Sunday  1906  the  owners  of  the  Kitchener  Ironworks,  which  
stood  where  the
brand-spanking-new   Derry   Mall   now   stands,   held   an   Easter-egg   
hunt   for   'all   the   good
children  of  Derry.'  The  hunt  took  place  in  the  huge  Ironworks  
building.  Dangerous  areas  were
closed   off,   and   employees   volunteered   their   time   to   stand   
guard   and   make   sure   no
adventurous   boy   or   girl   decided   to   duck   under   the   barriers   
and   explore.   Five   hundred
chocolate   Easter  eggs  wrapped  in  gay  ribbons  were  hidden  about  the  
rest  of  the  works.
According  to  Buddinger,  there  was  at  least  one  child  present  for  
each  of  those  eggs.  They  ran
giggling   and   whooping   and   yelling   through   the   Sunday-silent   
Ironworks,   finding   the   eggs
under  the  giant  tipper-vats,  inside  the  desk  drawers  of  the  foreman,  
balanced  between  the
great  rusty  teeth  of  gearwheels,  inside  the  molds  on  the  third  floor 
 (in  the  old  photographs
these   molds   look   like   cupcake   tins   from   some   giant's   
kitchen).   Three   generations   of
Kitcheners  were  there  to  watch  the  gay  riot  and  to  award  prizes  at  
the  end  of  the  hunt,  which
was  to  come  at  four  o'clock,  whether  all  the  eggs  had  been  found  
or  not.  The  end  actually
came  forty-five  minutes  early,  at  quarter  past  three.  That  was  when 
the Ironworks exploded.
Seventy-two  people  were  pulled  dead  from  the  wreckage  before  the  sun  
went  down.  The  final
toll   was   a   hundred   and   two.   Eighty-eight   of   the   dead   were   
children.   On   the   following
Wednesday,  while  the  city  still  lay  in  stunned  silent  contemplation  
of  the  tragedy,  a  woman
found  the  head  of  nine-year-old  Robert  Dohay  caught  in  the  limbs  of  
her  back-yard  apple
tree.  There  was  chocolate  on  the  Dohay  lad's  teeth  and  blood  in  his 
 hair.  He  was  the  last  of
the  known  dead.  Eight  children  and  one  adult  were  never  accounted  
for.  It  was  the  worst
tragedy  in  Derry's  history,  even  worse  than  the  fire  at  the  Black  
Spot  in  1930,  and  it  was
never  explained.  All  four  of  the  Ironworks'  boilers  were  shut  down.  
Not  just  banked;  shut
down.

But:

The murder  rate  in  Derry  is  six  times  the  murder  rate  of  any  other  
town  of  comparable  size
in  New  England.  I  found  my  tentative  conclusions  in  this  matter  so  
difficult  to  believe  that  I
turned  my  figures  over  to  one  of  the  high-school  hackers,  who  spends 
 what  time he doesn't
spend  in  front  of  his  Commodore  here  in  the  library.  He  went  
several  steps  further  — scratch
a  hacker,  find  an  overachiever  —  by  adding  another  dozen  small  
cities  to  what  he  called  'the
stat-pool'  and  presenting  me  with  a  computer-generated  bar  graph  where 
 Derry  slicks  out  like


a  sore  thumb.  'People  must  have  wicked  short  tempers  here,  Mr  
Hanlon,'  was  his  only
comment. I didn't reply. If I had, I might have told him that  something in  
Derry has a wicked
short temper, anyway.

Here  in  Derry  children  disappear  unexplained  and  unfound  at  the  rate  
of  forty  to  sixty  a
year.  Most  are  teenagers.  They  are  assumed  to  be  runaways.  I  suppose 
 some  of  them  even
are.

And  during  what  Albert  Carson  would  undoubtedly  have  called  the  time  
of  the  cycle,  the
rate of disappearance shoots nearly out of sight. In the year 1930, for 
instance  — the year the
Black Spot burned — there were better than  one hundred and seventy  child 
disappearances in
Derry  —  and  you  must  remember  that  these  are  only  the  disappearances 
which were reported
to  the  police  and  thus  documented.   Nothing  surprising  about  it,  the 
current Chief of Police
told me when I showed him the statistic.  It was the Depression. Most of em 
probably got tired
of eating potato soup or going flat hungry at home and went off riding the 
rods, looking for
something better.

During  1958,  a  hundred  and  twenty-seven  children,  ranging  in  age  from 
 three  to  nineteen,
were reported missing in Derry.  Was there a Depression in 1958?  I asked Chief 
Rademacher.
No, he said. But people move around a lot, Hanlon. Kids in particular get itchy 
feet. Have a
fight with the folks about coming in late after a date and boom, they're gone.

I  showed  Chief  Rademacher  the  picture  of  Chad  Lowe  which  had  
appeared  in  the  Derry
News in April 1958. You think this one ran away after a fight with his folks 
about coming in
late, Chief Rademacher? He was three and a half when he dropped out of sight.

Rademacher  fixed  me  with  a  sour  glance  and  told  me  it  sure  had  
been  nice  talking  with  me,

but if there was nothing else, he was busy. I left.

Haunted, haunting, haunt.

Often visited by ghosts or spirits, as in the pipes under the sink; to appear 
or recur often, as
every  twenty-five,  twenty-six,  or  twenty-seven  years;  a  feeding  place  
for  animals,  as  in  the
cases  of  George  Denbrough,  Adrian  Mellon,  Betty  Ripsom,  the  Albrecht  
girl,  the  Johnson
boy.

A feeding place for animals. Yes, that's the one that haunts me.

If  anything  else  happens  —   anything  at  all  —  I'll  make  the  calls.  
I'll  have  to.  In  the
meantime   I   have   my   suppositions,   my   broken   rest,   and   my   
memories  —   my   damned
memories.  Oh,  and  one  other  thing —  I  have  this  notebook,  don't  I?  
The  wall  I  wail  to.  And
here  I  sit,  my  hand  shaking  so  badly  I  can  hardly  write  in  it,  
here  I  sit in the deserted library
after  closing,  listening  to  faint  sounds  in  the  dark  stacks,  watching 
 the  shadows  thrown  by  the
dim yellow globes to make sure they don't move . . . don't change.

Here I sit next to the telephone.

I  put  my  free  hand  on  it  . . . let it slide down . . . touch the holes 
in the dial that could put
me in touch with all of them, my old pals.

We went deep together.

We went into the black together.

Would we come out of the black if we went in a second time?
I don't think so.

Please God I don't have to call them.
Please God.


'My surface is myself.

Under which
To witness, youth is

buried. Roots?
Everybody has roots.'

— William Carlos Williams,

Paterson

'Sometimes I wonder what I'm a-gonna do,
There ain't no cure for the summertime
blues.'

— Eddie Cochran


C H A P T E R  4

Ben Hanscom Takes a Fall

1

Around  11:45  PM.,  one  of  the  stews  serving  first  class  on  the  
Omaha-to-Chicago run  —
United Airlines's flight 41 — gets one hell of a shock. She thinks for a few 
moments that the
man in 1-A has died.

When he boarded at Omaha she thought to herself: 'Oh boy, here comes trouble. 
He's just
as drunk as a lord.' The stink of whiskey around his head reminded her 
fleetingly of the cloud
of dust that always surrounds the dirty little boy in the  Peanuts strip — Pig 
Pen, his name is.
She was nervous about First Service, which is the booze service. She was sure 
he would ask
for a drink — and probably a double. Then she would have to decide whether or 
not to serve
him. Also, just to add to the fun, there have been thunderstorms all along the 
route tonight,
and she is quite sure that at some point the man, a lanky guy dressed in jeans 
and chambray,
would begin upchucking.

But when First Service came along, the tall man ordered nothing more than a 
glass of club
soda, just as polite as you could want. His service light has not gone on, and 
the stew forgets
all about him soon enough, because the flight is a busy one. The flight is, in 
fact, the kind you
want to forget as soon as it's over, one of those during which you just might  
— if you had
time — have a few questions about the possibility of your own survival.

United  41  slaloms  between  the  ugly  pockets  of  thunder  and  lightning  
like  a  good  skier
going downhill. The air is very rough. The passengers exclaim and make uneasy 
jokes about
the lightning they can see flickering on and off in the thick pillars of cloud 
around the plane.
'Mommy,  is  God  taking  pictures  of  the  angels?'  a  little  boy  asks,  
and  his  mother, who is
looking rather green, laughs shakily. First Service turns out to be the only 
service on 41 that
night. The seat-belt sign goes on twenty minutes into the flight and stays on. 
All the same the
stewardesses stay in the aisles, answering the call-buttons which go off like 
strings of polite-
society firecrackers.

'Ralph is busy tonight,' the head stew says to her as they pass in the aisle; 
the head stew is
going back to tourist with a fresh supply of airsick bags. It is half-code, 
half-joke. Ralph is
always  busy  on  bumpy  flights.  The  plane  lurches,  someone  cries  out  
softly,  the  stewardess
turns  a  bit  and  puts  out  a  hand  to  catch  her  balance,  and  looks  
directly  into  the  staring,
sightless eyes of the man in 1-A.

Oh my dear God he's dead,  she thinks.  The liquor before he got on . . . then 
the bumps . . .
his heart . . . scared to death.

The lanky man's eyes are on hers, but they are not seeing her. They do not 
move. They are

perfectly glazed. Surely they are the eyes of a dead man.

The stew turns away from that awful gaze, her own heart pumping away in her 
throat at a
runaway rate, wondering what to do, how to proceed, and thanking God that at 
least the man
has no seatmate to perhaps scream and start a panic. She decides she will have 
to notify first
the head stew and then the male crew up front. Perhaps they can wrap a blanket 
around him
and close his eyes. The pilot will keep the belt light on even if the air 
smooths out so no one
can come forward to use the John, and when the other passengers deplane they'll 
think he's
just asleep —


These thoughts go through her mind rapidly, and she turns back for a confirming 
look. The
dead, sightless eyes fix upon hers . . . and then the corpse picks up his glass 
of club soda and
sips from it.

Just then the plane staggers again, tilts, and the stew's little scream of 
surprise is lost in
other,  heartier,  cries  of  fear.  The  man's  eyes  move  then   — not  
much,  but  enough  so  she
understands that he is alive and seeing her. And she thinks:  Why,  I  thought 
when he got on
that he was in his mid-fifties, but he's nowhere near that old, in spite of the 
graying hair.

She  goes  to  him,  although  she  can  hear  the  impatient  chime  of  
call-buttons behind her
(Ralph is indeed busy tonight: after their perfectly safe landing at O'Hare 
thirty minutes from
now, the stews will dispose of over seventy airsick bags).

'Everything okay, sir?' she asks, smiling. The smile feels false, unreal.

'Everything   is   fine   and   well,'   the   lanky   man   says.   She   
glances   at   the  first-class
stub  tacked  into  the  little  slot  on  his  seat-back  and  sees  that  his 
 name  is  Hanscom.
'Fine  and  well.  But  it's  a  bit  bumpy  tonight,  isn't  it?  You've  got  
your  work  cut  out
for  you,  I  think.  Don't  bother  with  me.  I'm  —  He  offers  her  a  
ghastly  smile,  a  smile
that  makes  her  think  of  scarecrows  flapping  in  dead  November  fields.  
'I'm  fine  and
well.'

'You looked'

(dead)

'a little under the weather.'

'I was thinking of the old days,' he says. 'I only realized earlier tonight 
that there were such
things as old days, at least as far as I myself am concerned.'

More call-buttons chime. 'Pardon me, stewardess?' someone calls nervously.
'Well, if you're quite sure you're all right — '

'I  was  thinking  about  a  dam  I  built  with  some  friends of mine,' Ben 
Hanscom says. 'The
first  friends  I  ever  had,  I  guess.  They  were  building  the  dam  when  
I  — ' He stops, looks
startled, then laughs. It is an honest laugh, almost the carefree laugh of a 
boy, and it sounds
very  odd  in  this  jouncing,  bucking plane.' — when I dropped in on them. 
And that's almost
literally what I did. Anyhow, they were making a helluva mess with that dam. I 
remember
that.'

'Stewardess? '

'Excuse me, sir — I ought to get about my appointed rounds again.'
'Of course you should.'

She hurries away, glad to be rid of that gaze — that deadly, almost hypnotic 
gaze.

Ben Hanscom turns his head to the window and looks out. Lightning goes off 
inside huge
thunderheads nine miles off the starboard wing. In the stutter-flashes of 
light, the clouds look
like huge transparent brains filled with bad thoughts.

He feels in the pocket of his vest, but the silver dollars are gone. Out of his 
pocket and into
Ricky Lee's. Suddenly he wishes he had saved at least one of them. It might 
have come in
handy.  Of  course  you  could  go  down  to  any  bank  — at least when you 
weren't bumping
around at twenty-seven thousand feet you could — and get a handful of silver 
dollars, but you
couldn't do anything with the lousy copper sandwiches the government was trying 
to pass off
as  real  coins  these  days.  And  for  werewolves  and  vampires  and  all  
manner  of  things  that
squirm  by  starlight,  it  was  silver  you  wanted;  honest  silver.  You  
needed  silver  to  stop  a
monster. You needed —

He  closed  his  eyes.  The  air  around  him  was  full  of  chimes.  The  
plane  rocked  and  rolled
and bumped and the air was full of chimes. Chimes?

No . . . bells.


It was bells, it was  the  bell, the bell of all bells, the one you waited for 
all year once the
new wore off school again, and that always happened by the end of the first 
week.  The bell,
the one that signalled freedom again, the apotheosis of all school bells.

Ben  Hanscom  sits  in  his  first-class  seat,  suspended  amid  the  thunders 
 at  twenty-seven
thousand  feet, his face turned to the window, and he feels the wall of time 
grow suddenly
thin; some terrible/wonderful peristalsis has begun to take place. He thinks;  
My God, I am
being digested by my own past.

The lightning plays fitfully across his face, and although he does not know it, 
the day has
just turned. May 28th, 1985, has become May 29th over the dark and stormy 
country that is
western  Illinois  tonight;  farmers  backsore  with  plantings  sleep  like  
the  dead  below  and
dream  their  quicksilver  dreams  and  who  knows  what  may  move  in  their  
barns  and  their
cellars  and  their  fields  as  the  lightning  walks  and  the  thunder  
talks?  No  one  knows  these
things; they know only that power is loose in the night, and the air is crazy 
with the big volts
of the storm.

But it's bells at twenty-seven thousand feet as the plane breaks into the clear 
again, as its
motion steadies again; it is bells; it is  the  bell as Ben Hanscom sleeps; and 
as he sleeps the
wall  between  past  and  present  disappears  completely  and  he  tumbles  
backward through
years  like  a  man  falling  down  a  deep  well-Wells's Time Traveller, 
perhaps, falling with a
broken iron rung in one hand, down and down into the land of the Morlocks, 
where machines
pound on and on in the tunnels of the night. It's 1981, 1977, 1969; and 
suddenly he is here,
here  in  June  of  1958;  bright  summerlight  is  everywhere  and  behind  
sleeping  eyelids  Ben
Hanscom's  pupils  contract  at  the  command  of  his  dreaming  brain,  which 
 sees  not  the
darkness  which  lies  over  western  Illinois  but  the  bright  sunlight  of  
a  June  day  in  Derry,
Maine, twenty-seven yean ago.

Bells.

The bell.

School.

School is.

School is

2

out!

The  sound  of  the  bell  went  burring  up  and  down  the  halls  of  Derry  
School,  a  big  brick
building  which  stood  on  Jackson  Street,  and  at  its  sound  the  
children  in  Ben  Hanscom's  fifth-
grade  classroom  raised  a  spontaneous  cheer  —  and  Mrs  Douglas,  usually 
 the  strictest  of
teachers, made no effort to quell them. Perhaps she knew it would have been 
impossible.

'Children!' she called when the cheer died. 'May I have your attention for a 
final moment?'

Now  a  babble  of  excited  chatter,  mixed  with  a  few  groans,  rose  in  
the  classroom.  Mrs
Douglas was holding their report cards in her hand.

'I  sure  hope  I  pass!'  Sally  Mueller  said  chirpily  to  Bev  Marsh,  who 
 sat  in  the  next  row.
Sally  was  bright,  pretty,  vivacious.  Bev  was  also  pretty,  but  there  
was  nothing  vivacious
about  her  this  afternoon,  last  day  of  school  or  not.  She  sat  
looking  moodily  down  at  her
penny-loafers. There was a fading yellow bruise on one of her cheeks.

'I don't give a shit if I do or not,' Bev said.

Sally  sniffed.  Ladies  don't  use  such  language,  the  sniff  said.  Then  
she  turned  to  Greta
Bowie.  It  had  probably  only  been  the  excitement  of  the  bell  
signalling  the  end  of  another
school-year  that  had  caused  Sally  to  slip  and  speak  to  Beverly  
anyhow,  Ben  thought.  Sally
Mueller  and  Greta  Bowie  both  came  from  rich  families  with  houses  on  
West  Broadway  while


Bev  came  to  school  from  one  of  those  shimmy  apartment  buildings  on  
Lower  Main  Street.
Lower Main Street and West Broadway were only a mile and a half apart, but even 
a kid like
Ben  knew  that  the  real  distance  was  like  the  distance  between  Earth  
and  the  planet  Pluto.  All
you  had  to  do  was  look  at  Beverly  Marsh's  cheap  sweater,  her  
too-big  skirt  that  probably
came  from  the  Salvation  Army  thrift-box,  and  her  scuffed  penny-loafers 
 to  know  just  how  far
one was from the other. But Ben still liked Beverly better  — a  lot  better. 
Sally and Greta had
nice  clothes,  and  he  guessed  they  probably  had  their  hair  permed  or  
waved  or  something
every  month  or  so,  but  he  didn't  think  that  changed  the  basic  facts 
 at  all.  They  could  get  their
hair permed every day and they'd still be a couple of conceited snots.

He thought  Beverly  was  nicer  .  .  .  and  much  prettier,  although  he  
never  in  a  million  years
would have dared say such a thing to her. But still, sometimes,  in  the heart 
of winter when the
light  outside  seemed  yellow-sleepy,  like  a  cat  curled  up  on  a  sofa,  
when  Mrs  Douglas was
droning  on  about   mathematics   (how  to   carry   down  in   long   
division  or  how  to   find  the
common  denominator  of  two  fractions  so  you  could  add  them)  or  
reading  the  questions  from
Shining Bridges  or  talking  about  tin  deposits  in  Paraguay,  on  those  
days  when it seemed that
school would never end and it didn't matter if it didn't because all the world 
outside was slush

.  .  .  on  those  days  Ben  would  sometimes  look  sideways  at  Beverly,  
stealing  her  face,  and  his
heart  would  both  hurt  desperately  and  somehow  grow brighter at the same 
time. He supposed
he  had  a  crush  on  her,  or  was  in  love  with  her,  and  that  was  why 
 it  was  always  Beverly  he
thought  of  when  the  Penguins  came  on  the  radio  singing  'Earth  Angel' 
  —  'my  darling  dear  /
love  you  all  the  time  .  .  .  '  Yeah, it was stupid, all right, sloppy 
as a used Kleenex, but it was
all  right,  too,  because  he  would  never  tell.  He  thought  that  fat  
boys  were  probably  only
allowed  to  love  pretty  girls  inside.  If  he  told  anyone  how  he  felt  
(not  that  he  had  anyone  to
tell),   that  person  would  probably  laugh  until  he  had  a  heart-attack. 
  And   if   he   ever   told
Beverly, she would either laugh herself (bad), or make retching noises of 
disgust (worse).

'Now please come up as soon as I call your name. Paul Andersen . . . Carla 
Bordeaux . . .

Greta Bowie . . . Calvin Clark . . . Cissy Clark . . . '

As   she   called   their   names,   Mrs   Douglas's   fifth-grade  class  came 
 forward  one  by  one
(except  for  the  Clark  twins,  who  came  together  as  always,  hand  in  
hand,  indistinguishable
except for  the  length  of  their  white-blonde  hair  and  the  fact  that  
she  wore  a  dress  while  he
wore  jeans),  took  their  buff-colored  report  cards  with  the  American  
flag  and  the  Pledge  of
Allegiance  on  the  front  and  the  Lord's  Prayer  on  the  back,  walked  
sedately  out  of  the
classroom . . . and then pounded down the hall to where the big front doors had 
been chocked
open.  And  then  they  simply  ran  out  into  summer  and  were  gone:  some  
on  bikes,  some
skipping,   some   riding   invisible   horses   and   slapping   their   hands 
  against   the   sides  of  their
thighs  to  manufacture  hoofbeats,  some  with  arms  slung  about  each  
other,  singing  'Mine  eyes
have  seen  the  glory  of  the  burning  of  the  school'  to  the  tune  of  
The  Battle  Hymn  of  the
Republic.'

'Marcia Fadden . . . Frank Frick . . . Ben Hanscom . . . '

He  rose,  stealing  his  last  glance  at  Beverly  Marsh  for  the  summer  
(or  so  he  thought  then),
and  went  forward  to  Mrs  Douglas's  desk,  an  eleven-year-old  kid  with  
a  can  roughly  the  size
of  New  Mexico  —  said  can  packed  into  a  pair  of  horrid  new  
blue-jeans that shone little darts
of  light  from  the  copper  rivets  and  went  whssht-whssht-whssht  as  his  
big  thighs  brushed
together.  His  hips  swung  girlishly.  His  stomach  slid  from  side  to  
side.  He  was  wearing  a
baggy  sweatshirt  although  the  day  was  warm.  He  almost  always  wore  
baggy  sweatshirts
because  he  was  deeply  ashamed  of  his  chest  and  had  been  since  the  
first  day  of  school  after
the  Christmas  vacation,  when  he  had  worn  one  of  the  new  Ivy  League  
shuts  his  mother  had
given  him,  and  Belch  Huggins,  who  was  a  sixthgrader,  had  cawed:  
'Hey,  you  guys!  Lookit
what  Santy  Claus  brought  Ben  Hanscom  for  Christmas!  A  big  set  of  
titties!'  Belch  had  nearly
collapsed  with  the  deliciousness  of  his  wit.  Others  had  laughed  as  
well  —  a few of them girls.


If a  hole  leading  into  the  underworld  had  opened  before  him  at  that  
very  moment,  Ben  would
have dropped into it without a sound . . . or perhaps with the faintest murmur 
of gratitude.

Since  that  day  he  wore  sweatshirts.  He  had  four  of  them  —  the  
baggy  brown,  the  baggy
green,  and  two  baggy  blues.  It  was  one  of  the  few  things  on  which  
he  had  managed  to  stand
up  to  his  mother,  one  of  the  few  lines  he  had  ever,  in  the  course 
 of  his  mostly  complacent
childhood,  felt  compelled  to  draw  in  the  dust.  If  he  had  seen  
Beverly  Marsh  giggling with the
others that day, he supposed he would have died.

'It's    been    a    pleasure    having    you    this    year,    Benjamin,'  
  Mrs    Douglas    said    as
she handed him his report card.

'Thank you, Mrs Douglas.'

A  mocking  falsetto  wavered  from  somewhere  at  the  back  of  the  room:  
'Sank -ooo, Missus
Dougwiss.'

It  was  Henry  Bowers,  of  course.  Henry  was  in  Ben's  fifth-grade class 
instead of in the sixth
grade  with  his  friends  Belch  Huggins  and  Victor  Criss  because  he  had 
 been  kept  back  the
year  before.  Ben  had  an  idea  that  Bowers  was  going  to  stay  back  
again.  His  name  had  not
been  called  when  Mrs  Douglas  handed  out  the  rank-cards,  and  that  
meant  trouble.  Ben  was
uneasy   about   this,   because   if   Henry   did   stay   back   again,   
Ben   himself   would   be   partly
responsible . . . and Henry knew it.

During  the  year's  final  tests  the  week  before,  Mrs  Douglas  had  
reseated  them  at  random  by
drawing  their  names  from  a  hat  on  her  desk.  Ben  had  ended  up  
sitting  next  to  Henry  Bowers
in  the  last  row.  As  always,  Ben  curled  his  arm  around  his  paper  
and  then  bent  close  to  it,
feeling  the  somehow  comforting  press  of  his  gut  against  his  desk,  
licking  his  Be-Bop  pencil
occasionally for inspiration.

About  halfway  through  Tuesday's  examination,  which  happened  to  be  
math,  a  whisper
drifted  across  the  aisle  to  Ben.  It  was  as  low  and  uncarrying  and  
expert  as  the  whisper  of  a
veteran con passing a message in the prison exercise yard: 'Let me copy.'

Ben  had  looked  to  his  left  and  directly  into  the  black  and  furious  
eyes  of  Henry  Bowers.
Henry  was  a  big  boy  even  for  twelve.  His  arms  and  legs  were  thick  
with  farm-muscle.  His
father,  who  was  reputed  to  be  crazy,  had  a  little  spread  out  at  
the  end  of  Kansas  Street,  near
the  Newport  town  line,  and  Henry  put  in  at  least  thirty  hours  a  
week  hoeing, weeding,
planting, digging rocks, cutting wood, and reaping, if there was anything to 
reap.

Henry's  hair  was  cut  in  an  angry-looking  flattop  short  enough  for  
the  white  of  his  scalp  to
show  through.  He  Butch-Waxed  the  front  with  a  tube  he  always  carrie 
d  in  the  hip  pocket  of
his  jeans,  and  as  a  result  the  hair  just  above  his  forehead  looked  
like  the  teeth  of  an  oncoming
power-mower. An odor of sweat and Juicy Fruit gum always hung about him. He 
wore a pink
motorcycle  jacket  with  an  eagle  on  the  back  to  school.  Once  a  
fourthgrader  was  unwise
enough  to  laugh  at  that  jacket.  Henry  had  turned  on  the  little  
squirt,  Umber  as  a  weasel  and
quick  as  an  adder,  and  double-pumped  the  squirt  with  one  work-grimed  
fist. The squirt lost
three   front   teeth.   Henry   got   a   two-week  vacation  from  school.  
Ben  had  hoped,  with  the
unfocused  yet  burning  hope  of  the  downtrodden and terrorized, that Henry 
would be expelled
instead  of  suspended.  No  such  luck.  Bad  pennies  always  turned  up.  
His  suspension  over,
Henry  had  swaggered  back  into  the  schoolyard,  balefully  resplendent  in 
 his  pink  motorcycle
jacket,  hair  Butch-Waxed  so  heavily  that  it  seemed  to  scream  up  from 
 his  skull.  Both  eyes
bore  the  puffed,  colorful  traces  of  the  beating  his  crazy  father  had 
 administered  for  'fighting
in the  playyard.'  The  traces  of  the  beating  eventually  faded;  for  the 
 kids  who  had  to  somehow
coexist  with  Henry  at  Derry,  the  lesson  did  not.  To  the  best  of  
Ben's  knowledge,  no  one  had
said anything about Henry's pink motorcycle jacket with the eagle on the back 
since then.

When  he  whispered  grimly  at  Ben  to  let  him  copy,  three  thoughts  had 
 gone  skyrocketing
through Ben's mind  —  which  was  every  bit  as  lean  and  quick  as  his  
body  was  obese  — in a
space  of  seconds.  The  first  was  that  if  Mrs  Douglas  caught  Henry  
cheating  answers  off  his


paper,  both  of  them  would  get  zeros  on  their  tests.  The  second  was  
that  if  he  didn't  let  Henry
copy,  Henry  would  almost  surely  catch  him  after  school  and  administer 
 the  fabled  double-
pump to him, probably with Huggins holding one of his arms and Criss holding 
the other.

These  were  the  thoughts  of  a  child,  and  there  was  nothing  surprising 
 about  that,  because  he

was a child. The third and last thought, however, was more sophisticated — 
almost adult.

He might get me, all right. But maybe I can keep out of his way for the last 
week of school.
I'm  pretty  sure  I  can,  if  I  really  try.  And  he'll  forget  over  the  
summer,  I  think.  Yeah.  He's
pretty stupid. If he flunks this test, maybe he'll stay back again. And if he 
stays back I'll get
ahead  of  him.  I  won't  be  in  the  same  room  with  him  anymore  .  .  . 
 .  I'll  get  to  junior  high
before he does. I . . . I might be free.

'Let me copy,' Henry whispered again. His black eyes were now blazing, 
demanding.
Ben shook his head and curle d his arm more tightly around his paper.

I'll  get  you,  fatboy,'  Henry  whispered,  a  little  louder  now.  His  
paper  was  so  far  an  utter
blank save for his name. He was desperate. If he flunked his exams and stayed 
back again, his
father would beat his brains out. 'You let me copy or I'll get you bad.'

Ben  shook  his  head  again,  his  jowls  quivering.  He  was  scared,  but  
he  was  also  determined.
He  realized  that  for  the  first  time  in  his  life  he  had  consciously  
committed  himself  to  a  course
of  action,  and  that  also  frightened  him,  although  he  didn't  exactly  
know  why  —  it  would  be
long  years  before  he  would  realize  it  was  the  cold-bloodedness of his 
calculations,  the  careful
and   pragmatic   counting   of   the   cost,   with   its   intimations   of   
onrushing   adulthood,   that   had
scared   him   even   more   than   Henry   had   scared   him.   Henry   he   
might   be   able   to   dodge.
Adulthood,  where  he  would  probably  think  in  such  a  way  almost  all  
the  time,  would  get  him
in          the end.

'Is  someone  talking  back  there?'  Mrs  Douglas  had  said  then,  very  
clearly. 'If so, I want it to
stop right now.'

Silence  had  prevailed  for  the  next  ten  minutes;  young  heads  remained  
studiously  bent  over

examination   sheets   which   smelled   of   fragrant   purple   mimeograph   
ink,   and   then   Henry's
whisper  had  floated  across  the   aisle  again,  thin,  just  audible,  
chilling  in  the  calm  assurance  of
its promise: 'You're dead, fatboy.'

3

Ben  took  his  rank-card  and  escaped,  grateful  to  whatever  gods  there  
are  for  eleven-year-old
fatboys  that  Henry  Bowers  had  not,  by  virtue  of  alphabetical  order,  
been  allowed  to  escape
the classroom first so he could lay for Ben outside.

He  did  not  run  down  the  corridor  like  the  other  children.  He  could 
run, and quite fast for a
kid  his  size,  but  he  was  acutely  aware  of  how  funny  he  looked  when 
 he  did. He walked fast,
though,  and  emerged  from  the  cool  book-smelling  hall  and  into  the  
bright  June  sunshine.  He
stood  with  his  face  turned  up  into  that  sunshine  for  a  moment,  
grateful  for  its  warmth  and  his
freedom.   September   was   a   million   years   from   today.  The  calendar 
 might  say  something
different,  but  what  the  calendar  said  was  a  lie.  The  summer  would  
be  much  longer  than  the
sum  of  its  days,  and  it  belonged  to  him.  He  felt  as  tall  as  the  
Standpipe  and  as  wide  as  the
whole town.

Someone  bumped  him  —  bumped  him  hard.  Pleasant  thoughts  of  the  
summer  lying  before
him  were  driven  from  Ben's  mind  as  he  tottered  wildly  for  balance  
on  the  edge  of  the  stone
steps. He grabbed the iron railing just in time to save himself from a nasty 
tumble.

'Get  out  of  my  way, you tub of guts.' It was Victor Criss, his hair combed 
back in an Elvis
pompadour  and  gleaming  with  Brylcreem.  He  went  down  the  steps  and  
along  the  walk  to  the


front  gate,  hands  in  the  pockets  of  his  jeans,  shirt-collar  turned  
up  hood-style,  cleats  on  his
engineer boots dragging and tapping.

Ben,  his  heart  still  beating  rapidly  from  his  fright,  saw  that  Belch 
 Huggins  was  standing
across  the  street,  having  a  butt.  He  raised  a  hand  to  Victor  and  
passed  him  the  cigarette  when
Victor  joined  him.  Victor  took  a  drag,  handed  it  back  to  Belch,  
then  pointed  to  where  Ben
stood,  now  halfway  down  the  steps.  He  said  something  and  they  both  
broke  up.  Ben's  face
flamed dully. They always got you. It was like fate or something.

'You like this place so well you're gonna stand here all day?' a voice said at 
his elbow.

Ben  turned,  and  his  face  became  hotter  still.  It  was  Beverly  Marsh,  
her  auburn  hair  a
dazzling  cloud  around  her  head  and  upon  her  shoulders,  her  eyes  a  
lovely  gray-green. Her
sweater,  pushed  to  her  elbows,  was  frayed  around  the  neck  and  almost 
 as  baggy  as  Ben's
sweatshirt.  Too  baggy,  certainly,  to  tell  if  she  was  getting  any  
chestworks  yet,  but  Ben  didn't
care; when love comes before puberty, it can come in waves so clear and so 
powerful that no
one  can  stand  against  its  simple  imperative,  and  Ben  made  no  effort  
to  do  so  now.  He  simply
gave  in.  He  felt  both  foolish  and  exalted,  as  miserably  embarrassed  
as  he  had  ever  been  in  his
life  .  .  .  and  yet  inarguably  blessed.  These  hopeless  emotions  mixed 
 in  a  heady  brew  that  left
him feeling both sick and joyful.

'No,'  he  croaked.  'Guess  not.'  A  large  grin  spread  across  his  face.  
He  knew  how  idiotic  it
must look, but he could not seem to pull it back.

'Well, good. Cause school's out, you know. Thank God.'

'Have . . . ' Another croak. He had to clear his throat, and his blush 
deepened. 'Have a nice
summer, Beverly.'

'You too, Ben. See you next year.'

She  went  quickly  down  the  steps  and  Ben  saw  everything  with  his  
lover's  eye:  the  bright
tartan  of  her  skirt,  the  bounce  of  her  red  hair  against  the  back  
of  her  sweater,  her  milky
complexion,  a  small  healing  cut  across  the  back  of  one  calf,  and  
(for  some  reason  this  last
caused  another  wave  of  feeling  to  sweep  him  so  powerfully  he  had  to 
 grope  for  the  railing
again;   the   feeling   was   huge,   inarticulate,   mercifully   brief;   
perhaps   a   sexual   pre-signal,
meaningless  to  his  body,  where  the  endocrine  glands  still  slept  
almost  without  dreaming,  yet
as     bright  as  summer  heat-lightning)  a  bright  golden  ankle-bracelet  
she  wore  just  above  her
right loafer, winking back the sun in brilliant little flashes.

A sound  —  some  sort  of  sound  — escaped him. He went down the steps like a 
feeble old
man  and  stood  at  the  bottom,  watching  until  she  turned  left  and  
disappeared beyond the high
hedge that separated the schoolyard from the sidewalk.

4

He  only  stood  there  for  a  moment,  and  then,  while  the  kids  were  
still  streaming  past  in
yelling,  running  groups,  he  remembered  Henry  Bowers  and  hurried  around 
 the  building.  He
crossed  the  little-kids'  playground,  running  his  fingers  across  the  
swing-chains  to  make  them
jingle  and  stepping  over  the  teeter-totter  boards.  He  went  out  the  
much  smaller  gate  which
gave  on  Charter  Street  and  headed  off  to  the  left,  never  looking  
back  at the stone pile where
he  had  spent  most  of  his  weekdays  over  the  last  nine  months.  He  
stuffed  his  rank-card in his
back pocket and started to whistle. He was wearing a pair of Keds, but so far 
as he could tell,
their soles never touched the sidewalk for eight blocks or so.

School  had  let  out  just  past  noon;  his  mother  would  not  be  home  
until  at  least  six,  because
on Fridays she went right to the Shop 'n Save after work. The rest of the day 
was his.

He  went  down  to  McCarron  Park  for  awhile  and  sat  under  a  tree,  not 
 doing  anything but
occasionally  whispering  'I  love  Beverly  Marsh'  under  his  breath,  
feeling  more  light-headed


and  romantic  each  time  he  said  it.  At  one  point,  as  a  bunch  of  
boys  drifted  into  the  park  and
began   choosing   up   sides   for   a   scratch  baseball  game,  he  
whispered  the  words  'Beverly
Hanscom' twice, and then had to put his face into the grass until it cooled his 
burning cheeks.

Shortly after that he got up and headed across the park toward Costello Avenue. 
A walk of
five  more  blocks  would  take  him  to  the  Public  Library,  which,  he  
supposed,  had  been  his
destination  all  along.  He  was  almost  out  of  the  park  when  a  
sixthgrader  named  Peter  Gordon
saw     him  and  yelled:  'Hey,  tits!  Wanna  play?  We  need  somebody  to  
be  right-field!' There was
an  explosion  of  laughter.  Ben  escaped  it  as  fast  as  he  could,  
hunching  his  neck  down  into  his
collar like a turtle drawing into its shell.

Still,  he  considered  himself  lucky,  all  in  all;  on  another  day  the  
boys  might  have  chased
him, maybe just to rank  him out, maybe to roll him in the dirt and see if he 
would cry. Today
they  were  too  absorbed  in  getting  the  game  going —  whether or not you 
could use fingers or
get  topsies  when  you  threw  the  bat  for  first  picks,  which  team  
would  get  their  guaranteed  last
ups,  all  the  rest.  Ben  happily  left  them  to  the  arcana  preceding  
the  first  ballgame  of  the
summer and went on his way.

Three  blocks  down  Costello  he  spied  something  interesting,  perhaps  
even  profitable,  under
someone's  front  hedge.  Glass  gleamed  through  the  ripped  side  of  an  
old  paper  bag.  Ben
hooked  the  bag  out  onto  the  sidewalk  with  his  foot.  It  seemed  his  
luck  really  was  in.  There
were  four  beer  bottles  and  four  big  soda  bottles  inside.  The  biggies 
 were  worth  a  nickel  each,
the   Rheingolds   two   pennies.   Twenty-eight   cents   under   someone's   
hedge,   just   waiting   for
some kid to come along and scoff it up. Some lucky kid.

'That's  me,'  Ben  said  happily,  having  no  idea  what  the  rest  of  the  
day  had  in  store.  He  got

moving  again,  holding  the  bag  by  the  bottom so  it  wouldn't  break  
open.  The  Costello  Avenue
Market  was  a  block  farther  down  the  street,  and  Ben  turned  in.  He  
swapped  the  bottles  for
cash and most of the cash for candy.

He   stood   at   the   penny-candy  window,  pointing,  delighted  as  always  
by  the  ratc heting
sound  the  sliding  door  made  when  the  storekeeper  slid  it  along  its  
track,  which  was  lined  with
ball-bearings.  He  got  five  red  licorice  whips  and  five  black,  ten  
rootbeer  barrels  (two  for  a
penny),  a  nickel  strip  of  buttons  (five  to  a  row,  five  rows  on  a  
nickel  strip,  and  you  ate  them
right off the paper), a packet of Likem Ade, and a package of Pez for his 
Pez-Gun at home.

Ben  walked  out  with  a  small  brown  paper  sack  of  candy  in  his  hand  
and  four  cents  in  the
right front pocket of his new jeans.  He looked at the brown bag with its load 
of sweetness and
a thought suddenly tried to surface

(you keep eating this way Beverly Marsh is never going to look at you)

but  it  was  an  unpleasant  thought  and  so  he  pushed  it  away.  It  went 
 easily  enough;  this was
a thought used to being banished.

If  someone  had  asked  him,  'Ben,  are  you  lonely?,'  he  would  have  
looked  at  that  someone
with  real  surprise.  The  question  had  never  even  occurred  to  him.  He  
had  no  friends,  but  he
had  his  books  and  his  dreams;  he  had  his  Revell  models;  he  had  a  
gigantic  set  of  Lincoln
Logs  and  built  all  sorts  of  stuff  with  them.  His  mother  had  
exclaimed  more  than  once  that
Ben's  Lincoln  Logs  houses  looked  better  than  some  real  ones  that  
came  from  blueprints.  He
had  a  pretty  good  Erector  Set,  too.  He  was  hoping  for  the  Super  
Set  when  his  birthday  came
around  in  October.  With  that  one  you  could  build  a  clock  that  
really  told  time  and  a  car  with
real gears in it. Lonely? he might have asked in return, honestly foozled. Huh? 
What?

A  child  blind  from  birth  doesn't  even  know  he's  blind  until  someone  
tells  him.  Even  then
he  has  only  the  most  academic  idea  of  what  blindness  is;  only  the  
formerly  sighted  have  a
real  grip  on  the  thing.  Ben  Hanscom  had  no  sense  of  being  lonely  
because  he  had never been
anything  but.  If  the  condition  had  been  new,  or  more  localized,  he  
might  have  understood,  but
loneliness   both   encompassed   his   life   and   overreached   it.   It   
simply  was,  like  his  double -


jointed  thumb  or  the  funny  little  jag  inside  one  of  his  front  
teeth,  the  little  jag  his  tongue
began running over whenever he was nervous.

Beverly was a sweet dream; the candy was a sweet reality. The candy was his 
friend. So he
told  the  alien  thought  to  take  a  hike,  and  it  went  quietly,  without 
 causing  any  fuss whatsoever.
And  between  the  Costello  Avenue  Market  and  the  library,  he  gobbled  
all  of  the  candy  in  the
sack.  He  honestly  meant  to  save  the  Pez  for  watching  TV  that  night  
— he liked to load them
into  the  little  plastic  Pez-Gun's  handgrip  one  by  one,  liked  to  hear 
 the  accepting  click  of  the
small  spring  inside,  and  liked  most  of  all  to  shoot  them  into  his  
mouth  one  by  one,  like  a  kid
committing  suicide  by  sugar.  Whirlybirds  was  on  tonight,  with  Kenneth  
Tobey  as  the  fearless
helicopter pilot, and  Dragnet,  where  the  cases  were  true  but  the  names 
 had  been  changed  to
protect  the  innocent,  and  his  favorite  cop  show  of  all  time,   
Highway  Patrol,  which starred
Broderick  Craw-ford  as  Highway  Patrolman  Dan  Matthews.  Broderick  
Crawford  was  Ben's
personal   hero.   Broderick   Crawford   was  fast,   Broderick   Crawford   
was  mean,  Broderick
Crawford  took  absolutely  no  shit  from  nobody  .  .  .  and  best  of  
all,  Broderick  Crawford  was
fat.

He  arrived  at  the  corner  of  Costello  and  Kansas  Street,  where  he  
crossed  to  the  Public
Library.   It  was  really  two  buildings  —  the  old  stone  structure  in  
front,  built  with  lumber-
baron   money   in   1890,   and   the   new   low   sandstone   building   
behind,   which   housed   the
Children's   Library.   The   adult   library   in   front   and   the   
Children's   Library   behind   were
connected by a glass corridor.

This  close  to  downtown,  Kansas  Street  was  one-way,  so  Ben  only  
looked  in  one  direction

—  right  —  before  crossing.  If  he  had  looked  left,  he  would  have  
gotten  a  nasty  shock.
Standing  in  the  shade  of  a  big  old  oak  tree  on  the  lawn  of  the  
Derry  Community  House  a
block down were Belch Huggins, Victor Criss, and Henry Bowers.

5

'Let's get him, Hank.' Victor was almost panting.

Henry  watched  the  fat  little  prick  scutter  across  the  street,  his  
belly  bouncing,  the  cowlick
at the  back  of  his  head  springing  back  and  forth  like  a  goddam  
Slinky,  his  ass  wiggling  like  a
girl's  inside  his  new  bluejeans.  He  estimated  the  distance  between  
the  three  of  them  here  on
the  Community  House  lawn  and  Hanscom,  and  between  Hanscom  and  the  
safety  of  the
library.  He  thought  they  could  probably  get  him  before  he  made  it  
inside,  but  Hanscom  might
start  screaming.  He  wouldn't  put  it  past  the  little  pansy.  If  he  
did,  an  adult  might  interfere,  and
Henry  wanted  no  interference.  The  Douglas  bitch  had  told  Henry  he  
had  flunked  both  English
and  math.  She  was  passing  him,  she  said,  but  he  would  have  to  take 
 four  weeks  of  summer
make-up.  Henry  would  rather  have  stayed  back.  If  he'd  stayed  back,  
his  father  would  have
beaten  him  up  once.  With  Henry  at  school  four  hours  a  day  for  four 
 weeks  of  the  farm's
busiest  season,  his  father  was  apt  to  beat  him  up  half  a  dozen  
times,  maybe  even  more.  He
was  reconciled  to  this  grim  future  only  because  he  intended  to  pass  
everything  on  to  that  fat
little babyfag this afternoon.

With interest.

'Yeah, let's go,' Belch said.
'We'll wait for him to come out.'

They watched Ben open one of the big double doors and go inside, and then they 
sat down

and  smoked  cigarettes  and  told  travelling-salesman  jokes  and  waited  
for  him  to  come  back
out.

Eventually,  Henry  knew,  he  would.  And  when  he  did,  Henry  was  going  
to  make  him  sorry
he was ever born.


6

Ben loved the library.

He  loved  the  way  it  was  always  cool,  even  on  the  hottest  day  of  a 
 long  hot  summer;  he
loved  its  murmuring  quiet,  broken  only  by  occasional  whispers,  the  
faint  thud  of  a  librarian
stamping  books  and  cards,  or  the  riffle  of  pages  being  turned  in  
the  Periodicals  Room,  where
the  old  men  hung  out,  reading  newspapers  which  had  been  threaded  
into  long  sticks.  He
loved   the   quality   of   the   light,   which   slanted   through   the   
high   narrow   windows   in   the
afternoons  or  glowed  in  lazy  pools  thrown  by  the  chain-hung globes on 
winter evenings while
the  wind  whined  outside.  He  liked  the  smell  of  the  books  —  a  spicy 
 smell,  faintly fabulous.
He  would  sometimes  walk  through  the  adult  stacks,  looking  at  the  
thousands  of  volumes  and
imagining  a  world  of  lives  inside  each  one,  the  way  he  sometimes  
walked  along  his  street  in
the  burning  smoke-hazed  twilight  of  a  late-October  afternoon,  the  sun  
only  a  bitter  orange
line  on  the  horizon,  imagining  the  lives  going  on  behind  all  the  
windows  —  people  laughing
or  arguing  or  arranging  flowers  or  feeding  kids  or  pets  or  their  
own  faces  while  they  watched
the   boobtube.   He   liked   the   way   the   glass  corridor  connecting  
the  old  building  with  the
Children's  Library  was  always  hot,  even  in  the  winter,  unless  there  
had  been  a  couple  of
cloudy   days;   Mrs   Starrett,   the   head   children's   librarian,   told  
 him   that   was   caused   by
something  called  the  greenhouse  effect.  Ben  had  been  delighted  with  
the  idea.  Years  later  he
would  build  the  hotly  debated  BBC  communications  center  in  London,  
and  the  arguments
might rage for a thousand years and still no one would know (except for Ben 
himself) that the
communications  center  was  nothing  but  the  glass  corridor  of  the  Derry 
 Public  Library  stood
on end.

He  liked  the  Children's  Library  as  well,  although  it  had  none  of  
the  shadowy  charm  he  felt
in  the  old  library,  with  its  globes  and  curving  iron  staircases  too  
narrow  for  two  people  to
pass upon them  —  one  always  had  to  back  up.  The  Children's  Library  
was  bright  and  sunny,
a little noisier in spite of the  LET'S  BE  QUIET ,  SHALL  WE?  signs that 
were posted around. Most
of   the   noise   usually   came   from   Pooh's   Corner,   where   the   
little   kids   went   to   look   at
picturebooks.  When  Ben  came  in  today,  story  hour  had  just  begun  
there.  Miss  Davies,  the
pretty young librarian, was reading 'The Three Billy Goats Gruff.'

'Who is that trip-trapping upon my bridge?'

Miss  Davies  spoke  in  the  low,  growling  tones  of  the  troll  in  the  
story.  Some  of  the  little
ones  covered  their  mouths  and  giggled,  but  most  only  watched  her  
solemnly,  accepting  the
voice  of  the  troll  as  they  accepted  the  voices  of  their  dreams,  and 
 their  grave  eyes  reflected
the eternal fascination of the fairytale: would the monster be bested . . . or 
would it feed?

Bright  posters  were  tacked  everywhere.  Here  was  a  good  cartoon  kid  
who  had  brushed  his
teeth  until  his  mouth  foamed  like  the  muzzle  of  a  mad  dog;  here  
was  a  bad  cartoon  kid  who
was smoking cigarettes  (WHEN I GROW UP I WANT TO BE SICK A LO T, JUST LIKE MY 
DAD, it said
underneath);  here  was  a  wonderful  photograph  of  a  billion  tiny  
pinpoints  of  light  flaring  in
darkness. The motto beneath said:

ONE IDEA LIGHTS A THOUSAND CANDLES.

— Ralph Waldo Emerson

There were invitations to  JOIN  THE  SCOUTING  EX PERIENCE.  A poster 
advancing the idea that
THE  GIRLS'  CLUBS  OF  TODAY  BUILD  THE  WOMEN  OF  TOMORROW.  There  were  
softball  sign-up
sheets  and  Community  House  Children's  Theater  sign-up  sheets.  And,  of  
course,  one  inviting
kids  to  JOIN   THE   SUMMER   READING  PROGRAM .  Ben  was  a  big  fan  of  
the  summer  reading


program.  You  got  a  map  of  the  United  States  when  you  signed  up.  
Then,  for  every  book  you
read  and  made  a  report  on,  you  got  a state  sticker  to  lick  and  put 
 on  your  map.  The  sticker
came  complete  with  info  like  the  state  bird,  the  state  flower,  the  
year  admitted  to  the  Union,
and  what  presidents,  if  any,  had  ever  come  from  that  state.  When  
you  got  all  forty-eight stuck
on  your  map,  you  got  a  free  book.  Helluva  good  deal.  Ben  planned  
to  do  just  as  the  poster
suggested: 'Waste no time, sign up today.'

Conspicuous  amid  this  bright  and  amiable  riot  of  color  was  a  simple  
stark  poster  taped  to
the checkout desk — no cartoons or fancy photographs here, just black print on 
white poster-
paper reading:

REMEMBER THE CURFEW.

7 P.M.

DERRY POLICE DEPARTMENT

Just looking at it gave Ben a chill. In the excitement of getting his 
rank-card, worrying
about Henry Bowers, talking with Beverly, and starting summer vacation, he had 
forgotten all
about the curfew, and the murders.

People  argued  about  how  many  there  had  been,  but  everyone  agreed  
that  there  had  been  at
least  four  since  last  winter  —  five  if  you  counted  George  Denbrough  
(many  held  the  opinion
that  the  little  Denbrough  boy's  death  must  have  been  some  kind  of  
bizarre  freak  accident).
The   first   everyone   was   sure   of   was   Betty   Ripsom,   who   had   
been   found   the   day   after
Christmas  in  the  area  of  turnpike  construction  on  Outer  Jackson  
Street.  The  girl,  who  was
thirteen,  had  been  found  mutilated  and  frozen  into  the  muddy  earth.  
This  had  not  been  in  the
paper, nor was it a thing any adult had spoken of to Ben. It was just something 
he had picked
up around the corners of overheard conversations.

About  three  and  a  half  months  later,  not  long  after  the  
trout-fishing  season  had  begun,  a
fisherman   working   the   bank   of   a   stream   twenty   miles   east   of 
  Derry   had   hooked   onto
something  he  believed  at  first  to  be  a  stick.  It  had  turned  out  to 
 be  the  hand, wrist, and first
four  inches  of  a  girl's  forearm.  His  hook  had  snagged  this  awful  
trophy  by  the  web  of  flesh
between the thumb and first finger.

The  State  Police  had  found  the  rest  of  Cheryl  Lamonica  seventy  yards 
 farther  downstream,
caught  in  a  tree that had fallen across the stream the previous winter. It 
was only luck that the
body had not been washed into the Penobscot and then out to sea in the spring 
runoff.

The  Lamonica  girl  had  been  sixteen.  She  was  from  Derry  but  did  not  
attend  school;  three
years  before  she  had  given  birth  to  a  daughter,  Andrea.  She  and  her 
 daughter  lived  at  home
with  Cheryl's  parents.  'Cheryl  was  a  little  wild  sometimes  but  she  
was  a  good  girl  at  heart,'
her  sobbing  father  had  told  police.  'Andi  keeps  asking  "Where's  my  
mommy?"  and  I  don't
know what to tell her.'

The  girl  had  been  reported  missing  five  weeks  before  the  body  was  
found.  The  police
investigation  of  Cheryl  Lamonica's  death  began  with  a  logical  enough  
assumption:  that  she
had  been  murdered  by  one  of  her  boyfriends. She had lots of boyfriends. 
Many were from the
air  base  up  Bangor  way.  'They  were  nice  boys,  most  of  them,'  
Cheryl's  mother  said.  One  of
the  'nice  boys'  had  been  a  forty-year-old  Air  Force  colonel  with  a  
wife  and  three  children  in
New Mexico. Another was currently serving time in Shawshank for armed robbery.

A boyfriend, the police thought. Or just possibly a stranger. A sexfiend.

If  it  was  a  sexfiend,  he  was  apparently  a  fiend  for  boys  as  well.  
In  late  April  a  junior-high
teacher  on  a  nature  walk  with  his  eighth-grade  class  had  spied  a  
pair  of  red  sneakers  and  a
pair   of  blue  corduroy  rompers  protruding  from  the  mouth  of  a  
culvert  on  Merit  Street.  That
end  of  Merit  had  been  blocked  off  with  sawhorses.  The  asphalt  had  
been  bulldozed  up  the
previous fall. The turnpike extension would cross there as well on its way 
north to Bangor.


The  body  had  been  that  of  three-year-old  Matthew  Clements,  reported  
missing  by  his
parents only the day before (his picture had been on the front page of the 
Derry  News, a dark-
haired  little  kid  grinning  brashly  into  the  camera,  a  Red  Sox  cap  
perched  on  his  head).  The
Clements  family  lived  on  Kansas  Street,  all  the  way  on  the  other  
side  of  town.  His  mother,  so
stunned  by  her  grief  that  she  seemed  to  exist  in  a  glass  ball  of  
utter  calm,  told  police  that
Matty  had  been  riding  his  tricycle  up  and  down  the  sidewalk  beside  
the  house,  which  stood
on  the  corner  of  Kansas  Street  and  Kossuth  Lane.  She  went  to  put  
her  washing  in  the  drier,
and  when  she  next  looked  out  the  window  to  check  on  Matty,  he  was  
gone.  There  had  only
been  his  overturned  trike  on  the  grass  between  the  sidewalk  and  the  
street.  One  of  the  back
wheels was still spinning lazily. As she looked, it came to a stop.

That  was  enough  for  Chief  Borton.  He  proposed  the  seven  o'clock  
curfew  at  a  special
session  of  the  City  Council  the  following  evening;  it  was  adopted  
unanimously  and  went  into
effect  the  next  day.  Small  children  were  to  be  watched  by  a  
'qualified  adult'  at  all  times,
according  to  the  story  which reported the curfew in the  News. At Ben's 
school there had been
a  special  assembly  a  month  ago.  The  Chief  went  on  stage,  hooked  his 
 thumbs  into  his
gunbelt,  and  assured  the  children  they  had  nothing  at  all  to  worry  
about  as  long  as  they
followed  a  few  simple  rules:  don't  talk  to  strangers,  don't  accept  
rides  with  people  unless  you
know  them  well,  always  remember  that  The  Policeman  Is  Your  Friend  .  
.  .  and  obey  the
curfew.

Two  weeks  ago  a  boy  Ben  knew  only  vaguely  (he  was  in  the  other  
fifth-grade classroom at
Derry  Elementary)  had  looked  into  one  of  the  stormdrains  out  by  
Neibolt  Street  and  had  seen
what  looked  like  a  lot  of  hair  floating  around  in  there.  This  boy,  
whose  name  was  either
Frankie  or  Freddy  Ross  (or  maybe  Roth),  had  been  out  prospecting  for 
goodies with a gadget
of  his  own  invention,  which  he  called  THE  FABULOUS  GUM-STICK.  When  
he  talked  about  it
you  could  tell  he  thought  about  it  like  that,  in  capital  letters  
(and  maybe  neon,  as  well). THE
FABULOUS  GUM-STICK  was  a  birch  branch  with  a  big  wad  of  bubble -gum  
stuck  on  the  tip.  In
his  spare  time  Freddy  (or  Frankie)  walked  around  Derry  with  it,  
peering  into  sewers  and
drains. Sometimes he saw money  —  pennies  mostly,  but  sometimes  a  dime  
or  even  a  quarter
(he  referred  to  these  latter,  for  some  reason known only to him, as 
'quay-monsters'). Once the
money   was   spotted,   Frankie-or-Freddy   and   THE   FABULOUS   GUM -STICK  
 would  swing  into
action. One downward poke through the grating and the coin was as good as in 
his pocket.

Ben  had  heard  rumors  of  Frankie -or-Freddy  and  his  gum  stick  long  
before  the  kid  had
vaulted  into  the  limelight  by  discovering  the  body  of  Veronica  
Grogan.  'He's  really  gross,'  a
kid  named  Richie  Tozier  had  confided  to  Ben  one  day  during  activity  
period.  Tozier  was  a
scrawny  kid  who  wore  glasses.  Ben  thought  that  without  them  Tozier  
probably  saw  every  bit
as  well  as  Mr  Magoo;  his  magnified  eyes  swam  behind  the  thick  
lenses  with  an  expression  of
perpetual  surprise.  He  also  had  huge  front  teeth  that  had  earned  him 
 the  nickname  Bucky
Beaver.  He  was  in  the  same  fifth-grade  class  as  Freddy-or-Frankie. 
'Pokes that gum stick of
his down sewerdrains all day long and then chews the gum from the end of it at 
night.'

'Oh gosh, that's bad!' Ben had exclaimed.

'Dat's wight, wabbit,' Tozier said, and walked away.

Frankie-or-Freddy had worked   THE  FABULOUS  GUM-STICK  back and forth through 
the grate
of  the  stormdrain,  believing  he'd  found  a  wig.  He  thought  maybe  he  
could  dry  it  out  and  give
it  to  his  mother  for  her  birthday,  or  something.  After a few minutes 
of poking and prodding,
just  as  he  was  about  to  give  up,  a  face  had  floated  out  of  the  
murky  water  in  the  plugged
drain, a face with dead leaves plastered to its white cheeks and dirt in its 
staring eyes.

Freddy-or-Frankie ran home screaming.

Veronica  Grogan  had  been  in  the  fourth  grade  at  the  Neibolt  Street  
Church  School,  which
was  run  by  people  Ben's  mother  called  'the  Christers.'  She  was  
buried  on  what  would  have
been her tenth birthday.


After  this  most  recent  horror,  Arlene  Hanscom  had  taken  Ben  into  the 
 living  room  one
evening and sat beside him on the couch. She picked up his hands and looked 
intently into his
face. Ben looked back, feeling a little uneasy.

'Ben,' she said presently, 'are you a fool?'

'No,     Mamma,'     Ben     said,     feeling     more     uneasy     than     
ever.     He     hadn't     the
slightest    idea    what    this    was    about.    He    could    not    
remember    ever    seeing    his
mamma look so grave.

'No,' she echoed. 'I don't believe you are.'

She  fell  silent  for  a  long  time  then,  not  looking  at Ben  but  
pensively  out  the  window.  Ben
wondered  briefly  if  she  had  forgotten  all  about  him.  She  was  a  
young  woman  still  —  only
thirty-two  —  but  raising  a  boy  by  herself  had  put  a  mark  on  her.  
She  worked  forty  hours  a
week  in  the  spool-and-bale  room  at  Stark's  Mills  in  Newport,  and  
after  workdays  when  the
dust  and  lint  had  been  particularly  bad,  she  sometimes  coughed  so  
long  and  hard  that  Ben
would  become  frightened.  On  those  nights  he  would  lie  awake  for  a  
long  time,  looking
through  the  window  beside  his  bed  into  the  darkness,  wondering  what  
would  become  of  him
if  she  died.  He  would  be  an  orphan  then,  he  supposed.  He  might  
become  a  State  Kid  (he
thought  that  meant  you  had  to  go  live  with  farmers  who  made  you  
work  from  sunup  to
sunset),  or  he  might  be  sent  to  the  Bangor  Orphan  Asylum.  He  tried  
to  tell  himself  it  was
foolish  to  worry  about  such  things,  but  the  telling  did  absolutely  
no  good.  Nor  was  it  just
himself  he   was  worried  about;  he  worried  for  her  as  well.  She  was  
a  hard  woman,  his
mamma,  and  she  insisted  on  having  her  own  way  about  most  things,  
but  she  was  a  good
mamma. He loved her very much.

'You know about these murders,' she said, looking back at last.
He nodded.

'At  first  people  thought  they  were  .  .  .  '  She  hesitated  over  the  
next  word, never spoken in
her son's presence before, but the circumstances were unusual and she forced 
herself. ' . . . sex
crimes.  Maybe  they  were  and  maybe  they  weren't.  Maybe  they're  over  
and  maybe  they're  not.
No  one  can  be  sure  of  anything  anymore,  except  that  some  crazy  man  
who  preys  on  little
children is out there. Do you understand me, Ben?'

He nodded.

'And you know what I mean when I say they may have been sex crimes?'

He didn't  — at least not exactly  —  but he nodded again. If his mother felt 
she had to talk to
him  about  the  birds  and  bees  as  well  as  this  other  business,  he  
thought  he  would  die  of
embarrassment.

'I worry about you, Ben. I worry that I'm not doing right by you.'
Ben squirmed and said nothing.

'You're on your own a lot. Too much, I guess. You — '
'Mamma — '

'Hush  while  I'm  talking  to  you,'  she  said,  and  Ben  hushed.  'You  
have  to  be  careful,  Benny.

Summer's  coming  and  I  don't  want  to  spoil  your  vacation,  but  you  
have  to  be  careful.  I  want
you in by suppertime every day. What time do we eat supper?'

'Six o'clock.'

'Right  with  Eversharp!  So  hear  what  I'm  saying:  if  I  set  the  table  
and  pour  your  milk  and
see  that  there's  no  Ben  washing  his  hands  at  the  sink,  I'm  going  
to  go  right  away  to  the
telephone and call the police and report you missing. Do you understand that?'

'Yes, Mamma.'

'And you believe I mean exactly what I say?'
'Yes.'

'It  would  probably  turn  out  that  I  did  it  for  nothing,  if  I  ever  
had  to  do  it  at  all.  I'm  not

entirely  ignorant  about  the  ways  of  boys.  I  know  they  get  wrapped  
up  in  their  own  games  and


projects  during  summer  vacation  -lining  bees  back  to  their  hives  or  
playing  ball  or  kick-the-
can or whatever. I have a pretty good idea what you and your friends are up to, 
you see.'

Ben  nodded  soberly,  thinking  that  if  she  didn't  know  he  had  no  
friends,  she  probably  didn't
know  anywhere  near  as  much  about  his  boyhood  as  she  thought  she  
did.  But  he  would  never
have dreamed of saying such a thing to her, not in ten thousand years of 
dreaming.

She  took  something  from  the  pocket  of  her  housedress  and  handed  it  
to  him  It  was  a  small
plastic box. Ben opened it. When he saw what was inside,  his mouth dropped 
open.  'Wow!'  he
said, his admiration totally unaffected. 'Thanks!'

It  was  a  Timex  watch  with  small  silver  numbers  and  an  
imitation-leather  band.  She  had  set

it and wound it; he could hear it ticking.

'Jeez, it's the coolest!' He gave her an enthusiastic hug and a loud kiss on 
the cheek.

She  smiled,  pleased  that  he  was   pleased,  and  nodded.  Then  she  grew  
grave  again.  'Put  it
on, keep it on, wear it, wind it, mind it, don't lose it.'

'Okay.'

'Now that you have a watch you have no reason to be late home. Remember what I 
said: if
you're  not  on  time,  the  police  will  be  looking  for  you  on  my  
behalf.  At  least  until  they  catch
the  bastard  who  is  killing  children  around  here,  don't  you  dare  be  
a  single  minute  late,  or  I'll
be on that telephone.'

'Yes, Mamma.'

'One  other  thing.  I  don't  want  you  going  around  alone.  You  know  
enough  not  to  accept
candy or rides from strangers  — we both agree that you're no fool  — and 
you're big for your
age,  but  a  grown  man,  particularly  a  crazy  one,  can  overpower  a  
child  if  he  really  wants  to.
When you go to the park or the library, go with one of your friends.'

'I will, Mamma.'

She  looked  out  the  window  again  and  uttered  a  sigh  that  was  full  
of  trouble.  'Things  have
come  to  a  pretty  pass  when  a  thing  like  this  can  go  on.  There's  
something  ugly  about  this
town,  anyway.  I've  always  thought  so.'  She  looked  back  at  him,  brows 
 drawn  down.  'You're
such  a  wanderer,  Ben.  You  must  know  almost  everyplace  in  Derry,  
don't  you?  The  town  part
of it, at least.'

Ben  didn't  think  he  knew  anywhere  near  all  the  places,  but  he  did  
know  a  lot  of them. And
he  was  so  thrilled  by  the  unexpected  gift  of  the  Timex  that  he  
would  have  agreed  with  his
mother  that  night  if  she  had  suggested  John  Wayne  should  play  Adolf  
Hitler  in  a  musical
comedy about World War II. He nodded.

'You've   never   seen   anything,   have   you?'   she   asked.   'Anything   
or   anyone   .   .   .   well,
suspicious? Anything out of the ordinary? Anything that scared you?'

And  in  his  pleasure  over  the  watch,  his  feeling  of  love  for  her,  
his  small-boy  gladness  at
her   concern   (which   was   at   the   same   time   a   little   
frightening   in   its   unhidden   unabashed
fierceness), he almost told her about the thing that had happened last January.

He opened his mouth and then something — some powerful intuition — closed it 
again.

What  was  that  something,  exactly?  Intuition.  No  more  than  that  .  .  
.  and  no  less.  Even
children  may  intuit  love's  more  complex  responsibilities  from  time  to  
time,  and  to  sense  that
in  some  cases  it  may  be  kinder  to  remain  quiet.  That  was  part  of  
the  reason  Ben  closed  his
mouth.  But  there  was  something  else  as  well,  something  not  so  noble. 
 She  could  be  hard,  his
mamma.  She  could  be  a  boss.  She  never  called  nun  'fat,'  she  called  
him  'big'  (sometimes
amplified  to  'big  for  his  age'),  and  when  there  were  leftovers  from  
supper  she  would  often
bring them to him while he was watching TV or doing his homework, and he would 
eat them,
although  some  dim  part  of  him  hated  himself  for  doing  so  (but  never 
 his  mamma  for  putting
the food before him  —  Ben  Hanscom  would  not  have  dared  to  hate  his  
mamma;  God  would
surely  strike  him  dead  for  feeling  such  a  brutish,  ungrateful  emotion 
 even  for  a  second).  And
perhaps  some  even  dimmer  part  of  him  —  the  far-off  Tibet  of  Ben's  
deeper  thoughts  —


suspected  her  motives  in  this  constant  feeding.  Was  it  just  love?  
Could  it  be  anything  else?
Surely not. But . . . he wondered. More to the point, she didn't know he had no 
friends. That
lack  of  knowledge  made  nun  distrust  her,  made  him  unsure  of  what  
her  reaction  would  be  to
his  story  of  the  thing  which  had  happened  to  him  in  January.  If  
anything  had  happened.
Coming in at six and staying in was not so bad, maybe. He could read, watch TV,

(eat)

build  stuff  with  his  logs  and  Erector  Set.  But  having  to  stay  in  
all  day  as  well  would  be
very bad . . . and if he told her what he had seen  — or thought he had seen  — 
in January, she
might make him do just that.

So, for a variety of reasons, Ben withheld the story.

'No, Mamma,' he said. 'Just Mr McKibbon rooting around in other people's 
garbage.'

That  made  her  laugh  —  she  didn't  like  Mr  McKibbon,  who  was  a  
Republican  as  well  as  a
'Christer'  —  and  her  laugh  closed  the  subject.  That  night  Ben  had  
lain  awake  late,  but  no
thoughts  of  being  cast  adrift  and  parentless  in  a  hard  world  
troubled  him.  He  felt  loved  and
safe  as  he  lay  in  his  bed  looking  at  the  moonlight  which  came  in  
through  the  window  and
spilled  across  the  bed  onto  the  floor.  He  alternately  put  his  watch  
to  his  ear  so  he  could  listen
to it tick and held it close to his eyes so he could admire its ghostly radiu m 
dial.

He  had  finally  fallen  asleep  and  dreamed  he  was  playing  baseball  
with  the  other  boys  in  the
vacant  lot  behind  Tracker  Brothers'  Truck  Depot.  He  had  just  hit  a  
bases-clearing home run,
swinging   from   his   heels   and   getting   every   inch   of   that   
little   honey,   and   his   cheering
teammates  met  him  in  a  mob  at  home  plate.  They  pummelled  him  and  
clapped  him  on  the
back.  They  hoisted  him  onto  their  shoulders  and  carried  him  toward  
the  place  where  their
equipment  was  scattered.  In  the  dream  he  was  almost  bursting  with  
pride  and  happiness  .  .  .
and  then  he  had  looked  out  toward  center  field,  where  a  chainlink  
fence  marked  the  boundary
between  the  cindery  lot  and  the  weedy  ground  beyond  that  sloped  into 
 the  Barrens.  A  figure
was  standing  in  those  tangled  weeds  and  low  bushes,  almost  out  of  
sight.  It  held  a  clutch  of
balloons  —  red,  yellow,  blue,  green  —  in  one  white-gloved hand. It 
beckoned with the other.
He   couldn't   see   the   figure's   face,   but   he   could   see   the   
baggy   suit   with   the   big   orange
pompom-buttons down the front and the floppy yellow bow-tie.

It was a clown.

Dot's wight, wabbit, a phantom voice agreed.

When Ben awoke the next morning he had forgotten the dream but his pillow was 
damp to
the touch . . . as if he had wept in the night.

7

He  went up to the main desk in the Children's Library, shaking the train of 
thought the curfew
sign had begun as easily as a dog shakes water after a swim.

'Hullo,  Benny,'  Mrs  Starrett  said.  Like  Mrs  Douglas  at  school,  she  
genuinely  liked  Ben.
Grownups,  especially  those  who  sometimes  needed  to  discipline  children  
as  part  of  their  jobs,
generally  liked  him,  because  he  was  polite,  soft-spoken,  thoughtful,  
sometimes  even  funny  in
a  very  quiet  way.  These  were  all  the  same  reasons  most  kids  thought 
 he  was  a  puke. 'You
tired of summer vacation yet?'

Ben  smiled.  This  was  a  standard  witticism  with  Mrs  Starrett.  'Not  
yet,'  he  said,  'since
summer  vacation's  only  been  going  on  —  he  looked  at  his  watch  —  
one  hour  and  seventeen
minutes. Give me another hour.'

Mrs  Starrett  laughed,  covering  her  mouth  so  it  wouldn't  be  too  loud. 
 She  asked  Ben  if  he
wanted to sign up for the summer reading program, and Ben said he did. She gave 
him a map
of the United States and Ben thanked her very much.


He  wandered  off  into  the  stacks,  pulling  a  book  here  and  there,  
looking  at  it,  putting  it
back.  Choosing  books  was  serious  business.  You  had  to  be  careful.  If 
 you  were  a  grownup
you  could  have  as  many  as  you  wanted,  but  kids  could  only  take  out 
 three  at  a  time.  If  you
picked a dud, you were stuck with it.

He finally picked out his three  —  Bulldozer, The Black Stallion,  and one 
that was sort of a
shot in the dark: a book called Hot Rod, by a man named Henry Gregor Felsen.

'You  may  not  like  this  one,'  Mrs  Starrett  remarked,  stamping  the  
book.  'It's  extremely
bloody.  I  urge  it  on  the  teenagers,  especially  the  ones  who  have  
just  got  their  driving  licenses,
because  it  gives  them  something  to  think  about.  I  imagine  it  slows  
some  of  them  down  for  a
whole week.'

'Well, I'll give it a whirl,' Ben said, and took his books over to one of the 
tables away from
Pooh's  Corner,  where  Big  Billy  Goat  Gruff  was  in  the  process  of  
giving  a  double  dose  of
dickens to the troll under the bridge.

He worked on  Hot Rod  for awhile, and it was not too shabby. Not too shabby at 
all. It was
about  a  kid  who  was  a  really  great  driver,  but  there  was  this  
party-pooper  cop  who  was
always trying to slow him down. Ben found out there were no speed limits in 
Iowa, where the
book was set. That was sort of cool.

He  looked  up  after  three  chapters,  and  his  eye  was  caught  by  a  
brand-new  display.  The
poster   on   top   (the   library   was   gung-ho  for  posters,  all  right)  
showed  a  happy  mailman
delivering a letter to a happy kid.  LIBRARIES ARE FOR WRITING, TOO, the  
poster said.  WHY NOT
WRITE A FRIEND TODAY? THE SMILES ARE GUARANTEED!

Beneath  the  poster  were  slots  filled  with  pre-stamped  postcards,  
pre-stamped  envelopes,

and  stationery  with  a  drawing  of  the  Derry  Public  Library  on  top  in 
 blue  ink.  The  pre-
stamped  envelopes  were  a  nickel  each,  the  postcards  three  cents.  The  
paper  was  two  sheets
for a penny.

Ben  felt  in  his  pocket.  The  remaining  four  cents  of  his  bottle  
money  was  still  there.  He
marked  his  place  in Hot Rod  and went back to the desk. 'May I have one of 
those postcards,
please?'

'Certainly,  Ben.'  As  always,  Mrs  Starrett  was  charmed  by  his  grave  
politeness  and  a  little

saddened  by  his  size.  Her  mother  would  have  said  the  boy  was  
digging  his  grave  with  a  knife
and fork. She gave him the card and watched him go back to his seat. It was a 
table that could
seat six, but Ben was the only one there. She had never seen Ben with any of 
the other boys.
It  was  too  bad,  because  she  believed  Ben  Hanscom  had  treasures  
buried  inside.  He  would
yield them up to a kind and patient prospector . . . if one ever came along.

8

Ben  took  out  his  ballpoint  pen,  clicked  the  point  down,  and  
addressed  the  card  simply
enough: Miss Beverly Marsh, Lower Main Street, Derry, Maine, Zone 2.  He did 
not know the
exact  number  of  her  building,  but  his  mamma  had  told  him  that  most  
postmen  had  a  pretty
good  idea  of  who  their  customers  were  once  they'd  been  on  their  
beats  a  little  while.  If  the
postman  who  had  Lower  Main  Street  could  deliver  this  card,  that  
would  be  great.  If  not,  it
would  just  go  to  the  deadletter  office  and  he  would  be  out  three  
cents.  It  would  certainly
never come back to him, because he had no intention of putting his name and 
address on it.

Carrying  the  card  with  the  address  turned  inward  (he  was  taking  no  
chances, even though
he  didn't  see  anyone  he  recognized),  he  got  a  few  square  slips  of  
paper  from  the  wooden  box
by the card-file. He took these back to his seat and began to scribble, to 
cross out, and then to
scribble again.


During  the  last  week  of  school  before  exams,  they  had  been  reading  
and  writing  haiku  in
English  class.  Haiku  was  a  Japanese  form  of  poetry,  brief,  
disciplined.  A  haiku,  Mrs  Douglas
said,  could  be  just  seventeen  syllables  long  —  no  more,  no  less.  It 
 usually  concentrated  on
one clear image  which  was  linked  to  one  specific  emotion:  sadness,  
joy,  nostalgia,  happiness  .

. . love.

Ben  had  been  utterly  charmed  by  the  concept.  He  enjoyed  his  English  
classes,  although
mild enjoyment was generally as far as it went. He could do the work, but as  a 
rule there was
nothing  in  it  which  gripped  him.  Yet  there  was  something  in  the  
concept  of  haiku  that  fired
his  imagination.  The  idea  made  him  feel  happy,  the  way  Mrs  
Starrett's  explanation  of  the
greenhouse  effect  had  made  him  happy.  Haiku  was  good  poetry,  Ben  
felt,  because  it  was
structured  poetry.  There  were  no  secret  rules.  Seventeen  syllables,  
one  image  linked  to  one
emotion,  and  you  were  out.  Bingo.  It  was  clean,  it  was  utilitarian,  
it  was  entirely  contained
within  and  dependent  upon  its  own  rules.  He  even  liked  the  word  
itself,  a  slide  of  air  broken
as   if along a dotted line by the 'k'-sound at the very back of your mouth: 
haiku.

Her hair,  he  thought,  and  saw  her  going  down  the  school  steps  again  
with  it  bouncing  on
her shoulders. The sun did not so much glint on it as seem to burn within it.

Working  carefully  over  a  twenty-minute  period  (with  one  break  to  go  
back  and  get  more
work-slips), striking out words that were too long, changing, deleting, Ben 
came up with this:

Your hair is winter fire,
January embers

My heart bums there, too.

He  wasn't  crazy  about  it,  but  it  was  the  best  he  could  do.  He  was 
 afraid  that  if  he  frigged
around  with  it  too  long,  worried  it  too  much,  he  would  end  up  
getting  the  jitters  and  doing
something  much  worse.  Or  not doing it at all. He didn't want that to 
happen. The moment she
had   taken  to  speak  to  him  had  been  a  striking  moment  for  Ben.  He  
wanted  to  mark  it  in  his
memory.  Probably  Beverley  had  a  crush  on  some  bigger  boy  —  a sixth  
—  or  maybe  even  a
seventh-grader,  and  she  would  think  that  maybe  that  boy  had  sent  the 
 haiku.  That  would
make       her happy, and so the day she got it would be marked in her memory. 
And although she
would  never  know  it  had  been  Ben  Hanscom  who  marked  it  for  her,  
that  was  all  right;   he
would know.

He copied his completed poem onto the back of the postcard (printing in block 
letters, as if
copying out a ransom note rather than a love poem), clipped his pen back into 
his pocket, and
stuck the card in the back of Hot Rod.

He got up then, and said goodbye to Mrs Starrett on his way out.

'Goodbye,  Ben,'  Mrs  Starrett  said.  'Enjoy  your  summer  vacation,  but  
don't  forget  about  the
curfew.'

'I won't.'

He   strolled   through   the   glassed-in  passageway  between  the  two  
buildings,  enjoying  the
heat  there  (greenhouse  effect,   he  thought  smugly)  followed  by  the  
cool  of  the  adult  library.
An  old  man  was  reading  the  News  in one of the ancient, comfortably 
overstuffed chairs in the
Reading  Room  alcove.  The  headline  just  below  the  masthead  blazed:  
DULLES  PLEDGES  us
TROOPS  TO  HELP  LEBANON  IF  NEEDED!  There  was  also  a  photo  of  Ike,  
shaking  hands  with  an
Arab  in  the  Rose  Garden.  Ben's  mamma  said  that  when  the  country  
elected  Hubert  Humphrey
President  in  1960,  maybe  things  would  get  moving  again.  Ben  was  
vaguely  aware  that  there
was something called a recession going on, and his mamma was afraid she might 
get laid off.

A  smaller  headline  on  the  bottom  half  of  page  one  read  POLICE  HUNT  
FOR  PSYCHOPATH
GOES ON.

Ben pushed open the library's big front door and stepped out.


There  was  a  mailbox  at  the  foot  of  the  walk.  Ben  fished  the  
postcard  from the back of the
book  and  mailed  it.  He  felt  his  heartbeat  speed  up  a  little  as  it  
slipped  out  of  his  fingers.  What
if she knows it's me, somehow?

Don't be a stupe, he responded, a little alarmed at how exciting that idea 
seemed to him.

He walked off up Kansas Street, hardly aware of where he was going and not 
caring at all.
A  fantasy  had  begun  to  form  in  his  mind.  In  it,  Beverly  Marsh  
walked  up  to  him,  her  gray-
green  eyes  wide,  her  auburn  hair  tied  back  in  a  pony-tail. I want to 
ask you a question, Ben,
this  make-believe girl said in his mind,  and you've got to swear to tell the 
truth.  She held up
the postcard. Did you write this?

This  was  a  terrible  fantasy.  This  was  a  wonderful  fantasy.  He  wanted 
 it  to  stop.  He  didn't
want it to ever stop. His face was starting to burn again.

Ben walked and dreamed and shifted his library books from one arm to the other 
and began
to whistle. You'll probably think I'm horrible, Beverly said, but I think I 
want to kiss you. Her
lips parted slightly.

Ben's own lips were suddenly too dry to whistle.

'I  think  I  want  you  to,'  he  whispered,  and  smiled  a  dopey,  dizzy,  
and  absolutely  beautiful
grin.

If  he  had  looked  down  at  the  sidewalk  just  then,  he  would  have  
seen  that  three  other
shadows  had  grown  around  his  own;  if  he  had  been  listening  he  would 
 have  heard  the  sound
of  Victor's  cleats  as  he,  Belch,  and  Henry  closed  in.  But  he  
neither  heard  nor  saw.  Ben  was
far  away,  feeling  Beverly's  lips  slip  softly  against  his  mouth,  
raising  his  timid  hands  to  touch
the dim Irish fire of her hair.

9

Like  many  cities,  small  and  large,  Derry  had  not  been  planned  —  
like  Topsy,  it  just  growed.
City  planners  never  would  have  located  it  where  it  was  in  the  first 
 place.  Downtown  Derry
was  in  a  valley  formed  by  the  Kenduskeag  Stream,  which  ran  through  
the  business  district  on
a  diagonal  from  southwest  to  northeast.  The  rest  of  the  town  had  
swarmed  up  the  sides  of  the
surrounding hills.

The  valley  the  township's  original  settlers  came  to  had  been  swampy  
and  heavily  grown
over.  The  stream  and  the  Penobscot  River  into  which  the  Kenduskeag  
emptied  were  great
things  for  traders,  bad  ones  for  those  who  sowed  crops  or  built  
their  houses too close to them

—  the  Kenduskeag  in  particular,  because  it  flooded  every  three  or  
four  years.  The  city  was
still  prone  to  flooding  in  spite  of  the  vast  amounts  of  money  spent 
 over  the  last  fifty  years  to
control  the  problem.  If  the  floods  had  been  caused only by the stream 
itself, a system of dams
might  have  taken  care  of  things.  There  were,  however,  other  factors.  
The  Kenduskeag's  low
banks  were  one.  The  entire  area's  logy  drainage  was  another.  Since  
the  turn  of  the  century
there  had  been  many  serious  floods  in  Derry  and  one  disastrous  one,  
in  1931.  To  make
matters  worse,  the  hills  on  which  much  of  Derry  was  built  were  
honeycombed  with  small
streams  —  Torrault  Stream,  in  which  the  body  of  Cheryl  Lamonica  had  
been  found,  was  one
of  them.  During  periods  of  heavy  rain,  they  were  all  apt  to  
overflow  their  banks.  'If  it  rains
two weeks the whole damn town gets a sinus infection,' Stuttering Bill's dad 
had said once.

The  Kenduskeag  was  caged  in  a  concrete  canal  two  miles  long  as  it  
passed  through
downtown.   This   canal   dived   under   Main   Street   at   the   
intersection   of   Main   and   Canal,
becoming  an  underground  river  for  half  a  mile  or  so  before  surfacing 
 again  at  Bassey  Park.
Canal  Street,  where  most  of  Derry's  bars  were  ranked  like  felons  in  
a  police  lineup,  paralleled
the  Canal  on  its  way  out  of  town,  and  every  few  weeks  or  so  the  
police  would  have  to  fish


some  drunk's  car  out  of  the  water,  which  was  polluted  to  drop-dead 
levels by sewage and mill
wastes. Fish were caught from time to time in the Canal, but they were inedible 
mutants.

On  the  northeastern  side  of  town  —  the  Canal  side  —  the  river  had  
been  managed  to  at
least  some  degree.  A  thriving  commerce  went  on  all  along  it  in  
spite  of  the  occasional
flooding.  People  walked  beside  the  Canal,  sometimes  hand  in  hand  (if  
the  wind  was  right,
that  was;  if  it  was  wrong,  the  stench  took  much  of  the  romance  out 
 of  such  strolling),  and  at
Bassey  Park,  which  faced  the  high  school  across  the  Canal,  there  
were  sometimes  Boy  Scout
campouts  and  Cub  Scout  wiener  roasts.  In  1969  the  citizens  would  be  
shocked  and  sickened
to  discover  that  hippies  (one  of  them  had  actually  sewed  an  American 
 flag  on  the  seat  of  his
pants, and  that  pinko-faggot was busted before you could say Gene McCarthy) 
were smoking
dope and trading pills  up  there.  By  '69  Bassey  Park  had  become  a  
regular  open-air pharmacy.
You just wait,  people said.  Somebody'll get killed before they put a stop to 
it.  And of course
someone finally did  —  a  seventeen-year-old  boy  had  been  found  dead  by  
the  Canal,  his  veins
full  of  almost  pure  heroin  —  what  the  kids  called  a  tight  white  
rail.  After  that  the  druggies
began  to  drift  away  from  Bassey  Park,  and  there  were  even  stories  
that  the  kid's  ghost  was
haunting  the  area.  The  story  was  stupid,  of  course,  but  if  it  kept  
the  speed-freaks and the
nodders away, it was at least a useful stupid story.

On  the  southwestern  side  of  town  the  river  presented  even  more  of  a 
 problem.  Here  the
hills  had  been  deeply  cut  open  by  the  passing  of  the  great  glacier  
and  further  wounded  by  the
endless  water  erosion  of  the  Kenduskeag  and  its  webwork  of  
tributaries;  the  bedrock  showed
through  in  many  places  like  the  half-unearthed  bones  of  dinosaurs.  
Veteran  employees  of  the
Derry  Public  Works  Department  knew  that,  following  the  fall's  first  
hard  frost,  they  could
count  on  a  good  deal  of  sidewalk  repair  on  the  southwestern  side  of 
 town.  The  concrete
would contract  and  grow brittle and  then  the  bedrock would suddenly 
shatter up through  it,  as
if the earth meant to hatch something.

What  grew  best  in  the  shallow  soil  which  remained  was  plants  with  
shallow  root-systems
and  hardy  natures  —  weeds  and  trash-plants,  in  other  words:  scruffy  
trees,  thick  low  bushes,
and  virulent  infestations  of  poison  ivy  and  poison  oak  grew  
everywhere  they  were  allowed  a
foothold.  The  southwest  was  where  the  land  fell  away  steeply  to  the  
area  that  was  known  in
Derry as the Barrens. The Barrens  —  which were anything  but  barren  — were 
a messy tract
of  land  about  a  mile  and  a  half  wide  by  three  miles  long.  It  was  
bounded  by upper Kansas
Street  on  one  side  and  by  Old  Cape  on  the  other.  Old  Cape  was  a  
low-income  housing
development,  and  the  drainage  was  so  bad  over  there  that  there  were  
stories  of  toilets  and
sewer-pipes actually exploding.

The  Kenduskeag  ran  through  the  center  of  the  Barrens.  The  city  had  
grown  up  to  the
northeast  and  on  both  sides  of  it,  but  the  only  vestiges  of  the  
city  down  there  were  Derry
Pumphouse  #3  (the  municipal  sewage-pumping  station)  and  the  City  Dump. 
 Seen  from  the  air
the Barrens looked like a big green dagger pointing at downtown.

To  Ben  all  this  geography  mated  with  geology  meant  was  a  vague  
awareness  that  there
were   no   more   houses   on   his   right   side   now;   the   land   had   
dropped   away.   A   rickety
whitewashed  railing,  about  waist-high,  ran  beside  the  sidewalk,  a  
token  gesture  of  protection.
He       could faintly hear running water; it was the sound-track to his 
continuing fantasy.

He  paused  and  looked  out  over  the  Barrens,  still  imagining  her  eyes, 
 the  clean  smell  of  her
hair.

From  here  the  Kenduskeag  was  only  a  series  of  twinkles  seen  through  
breaks  in  the  thick
foliage. Some kids said that there were mosquitoes as big as sparrows down 
there at this time
of  year;  others  said  there  was  quicksand  as  you  approached  the  
river.  Ben  didn't  believe  it
about the mosquitoes, but the idea of quicksand scared him.

Slightly  to  his  left  he  could  see  a  cloud  of  circling,  diving  
seagulls:  the  dump.  Their  cries

reached him faintly. Across the  way he could  see Derry Heights, and  the  low 
 roofs of the  Old


Cape  houses  closest  to  the  Barrens.  To  the  right  of  Old  Cape,  
pointing  skyward  like  a  squat
white  finger,  was  the  Derry  Standpipe.  Directly  below  him  a  rusty  
culvert  stuck  out  of  the
earth,  spilling  discolored  water  down  the  hill  in  a  glimmering  little 
 stream which  disappeared
into the tangled trees and bushes.

Ben's  pleasant  fantasy  of  Beverly  was  suddenly  broken  by  one  far  
more  grim:  what  if  a
dead  hand  flopped  out  of  that  culvert  right  now,  right  this  second,  
while  he  was  looking?  And
suppose that when  he  turned  to  find  a  phone  and  call  the  police,  a  
clown  was  standing  there?
A funny clown wearing a baggy suit with big orange puffs for buttons? Suppose —

A hand fell on Ben's shoulder, and he screamed.

There  was  laughter.  He  whirled  around,  shrinking  against  the  white  
fence  separating  the
safe,   sane   sidewalk   of   Kansas   Street   from   the   wildly   
undisciplined   Barrens   (the   railing
creaked audibly), and saw Henry Bowers, Belch Huggins, and Victor Criss 
standing there.

'Hi, Tits,' Henry said.

'What do you want?' Ben asked, trying to sound brave.

'I  want  to  beat  you  up,'  Henry  said.  He  seemed  to  contemplate  this  
prospect  soberly,  even
gravely.  But  oh,  his  black  eyes  sparkled.  'I  got  to  teach  you  
something, Tits. You won't mind.
You like to learn new things, don'tcha?'

He reached for Ben. Ben ducked away.
'Hold him, you guys.'

Belch  and  Victor  seized  his  arms.  Ben  squealed.  It  was  a  cowardly  
sound,  rabbity  and
weak, but he couldn't help it. Please God don't let them make me cry and don't 
let them break
my watch,  Ben thought wildly. He didn't know if they would get around to 
breaking his watch
or  not,  but  he  was  pretty  sure  he  would  cry.  He  was  pretty  sure  
he  would  cry  plenty  before
they were through with him.

'Jeezum,  he  sounds  just like a pig,' Victor said. He twisted Ben's wrist. 
'Don't he sound like
a pig?'

'He sure do,' Belch giggled.

Ben  lunged  first  one  way  and  then  the  other.  Belch  and  Victor  went  
with  him  easily,  letting
him lunge, then yanking him back.

Henry  grabbed  the  front  of  Ben's  sweatshirt  and  yanked  it  upward,  
exposing  his  belly.  It
hung over his belt in a swollen droop.

'Lookit that gut!' Henry cried in amazed disgust. 'Jesus-please-us!'

Victor  and  Belch  laughed  some  more.  Ben  looked  around  wildly  for  
help.  He  could  see  no
one. Behind him, down in the Barrens, crickets drowsed and seagulls screamed.

'You just better quit!' he said. He wasn't blubbering yet but was close to it. 
'You just better!'
'Or what?' Henry asked as if he was honestly interested. 'Or what, Tits? Or 
what, huh?'

Ben  suddenly  found  himself  thinking  of  Broderick  Crawford,  who  played  
Dan  Matthews
on Highway Patrol  —  that bastard was  tough,  that bastard was  mean,  that 
bastard took zero
shit  from  anybody  —  and  then  he  bur st  into  tears.  Dan  Matthews  
would  have  belted  these
guys  right  through  the  fence,  down  the  embankment,  and  into  the  
puckerbrush.  He  would
have done it with his belly.

'Oh  boy,  lookit  the  baby!'  Victor  chortled.  Belch  joined  in.  Henry  
smiled  a  little,  but his

face   still   held   that   grave,   reflective   cast  —   that  look  that  
was  somehow  almost  sad.  It
frightened Ben. It suggested he might be in for more than just a beating.

As  if  to  confirm  this  idea,  Henry  reached  into  his  jeans  pocket  and 
 brought  out  a  Buck
knife.

Ben's  terror  exploded.  He  had  been  whipsawing  his  body  futilely  to  
either  side;  now  he
suddenly  lunged  straight  forward.  There  was  an  instant  when  he  
believed  he  was  going  to  get
away.  He  was  sweating  heavily,  and  the  boys  holding  his  arms  had 
greasy grips at best. Belch


managed  to  hold  on  to  his  right  wrist,  but  just  barely.  He  pulled  
entirely  free  of  Victor.
Another lunge —

Before   he   could   make   it,   Henry   stepped   forward   and   gave   him 
  a   shove.   Ben   flew
backward.  The  railing  creaked  more  loudly  this  tune,  and  he  felt  it  
give  a  little  under  his
weight. Belch and Victor grabbed him again.

'Now you hold him,' Henry said. 'You hear me?'

'Sure,  Henry,'  Belch  said.  He  sounded  a  trifle  uneasy.  'He  ain't  
gonna  get  away.  Don't
worry.'

Henry  stepped  forward  until  his  flat  stomach  almost  touched  Ben's  
belly.  Ben  stared  at

him,  tears  spilling  helplessly  out  of  his  wide  eyes.  Caught!  I'm  
caught!  a  part  of  his  mind
yammered.  He  tried  to  stop  it  —  he  couldn't  think  at  all  with  that 
 yammering  going on  — but
it wouldn't stop. Caught! Caught! Caught!

Henry  pulled  out  the  blade,  which  was  long  and  wide  and  engraved  
with  his  name.  The  tip
glittered in the afternoon sunshine.

'I'll  gonna  test  you  now,'  Henry  said  in  that  same  reflective  voice. 
 'It's  exam  time,  Tits,  and
you better be ready.'

Ben wept. His heart thundered madly in his chest. Snot ran out of his nose and 
collected on
his  upper  lip.  His  library  books  lay  in  a  scatter  at  his  feet.  
Henry  stepped  on  Bulldozer,
glanced down, and dealt it into the gutter with a sideswipe of one black 
engineer boot.

'Here's  the  first  question  on  your  exam,  Tits.  When  somebody  says  
"Let  me  copy"  during
finals, what are you going to say?'

'Yes!' Ben exclaimed immediately. 'I'm going to say yes! Sure! Okay! Copy all 
you want!'

The  Buck's  tip  slid  through  two  inches  of  air  and  pressed  against  
Ben's  stomach.  It  was  as
cold  as  an  ice-cube  tray  just  out  of  the  Frigidaire.  Ben  gasped  his 
 belly  away  from  it.  For  a
moment  the  world  went  gray.  Henry's  mouth  was  moving  but  Ben  
couldn't  tell  what  he  was
saying.  Henry  was  like  a  TV  with  the  sound  turned  off  and  the  
world  was  swimming  .  .  .
swimming . . .

Don't you dare faint! the panicky voice shrieked. If you faint he may get mad 
enough to kill
you!

The  world  came  back  into  some  kind  of  focus.  He  saw  that  both  
Belch  and  Victor  had
stopped  laughing.  They  looked  nervous  .  .  .  almost  scared.  Seeing  
that  had  the  effect  of  a
head-clearing slap on Ben. All of a sudden they don't know what he's going  to 
do, or how far
he might go. However bad you thought things were, that's how bad they really 
are . . . maybe
even a little worse. You got to think. If you never did before or never do 
again, you better
think  now.  Because  his  eyes  say  they're  right  to  look nervous. His 
eyes say he's crazy as a
bedbug.

'That's  the  wrong  answer,  Tits,'  Henry  said.  'If  just  anyone  says 
"Let me copy," I don't give
a red fuck what you do. Got it?'

'Yes,' Ben said, his belly hitching with sobs. 'Yes, I got it.'

'Well,  okay.  That's  one  wrong,  but  the  biggies  are  still  coming  up.  
You  ready  for  the
biggies?'

'I . . . I guess so.'

A  car  came  slowly  toward  them.  It  was  a  dusty  '51  Ford  with  an  
old  man  and  woman
propped  up  in  the  front  seat  like  a  pair  of  neglected  department  
store  mannequins.  Ben  saw
the   old  man's  head  turn  slowly  toward  him.  Henry  stepped  closer  to  
Ben,  hiding  the  knife.
Ben  could  feel  its  point  dimpling  his  flesh  just  above  his  
bellybutton.  It  was  still  cold.  He
didn't see how that could be, but it was.

'Go  ahead,  yell,'  Henry  said.  'You'll  be  pickin  your  fuckin  guts  off 
 your  sneakers.'  They
were  close  enough  to  kiss.  Ben  could  smell  the  sweet  smell  of  Juicy 
 Fruit  gum  on  Henry's
breath.


The  car  passed  and  continued  on  down  Kansas  Street,  as slow and serene 
as the pace car in
the Tournament of Roses Parade.

'All  right,  Tits,  here's  the  second  question.  If  I  say  "Let  me  
copy"  during  finals,  what  are

you going to say?'

'Yes. I'll say yes. Right away.'

Henry  smiled.  'That's  good.  You got that one right, Tits. Now here's the 
third question: how
am I going to be sure you never forget that?'

'I . . . I don't know,' Ben whispered.

Henry smiled. His face lit up and was for a moment almost handsome. 'I know!' 
he said, as
if he had discovered a great truth. 'I know, Tits! I'll carve my name on your 
big fat gut!'

Victor  and  Belch  abruptly  began  laughing  again.  For  a  moment  Ben  
felt  a  species  of

bewildered  relief,  thinking  it  had  all  been  nothing  but  make-believe  
—  a  little  shuck-and-jive
the  three  of  them  had  whomped  up  to  scare  the  living  hell  out  of  
him.  But  Henry  Bowers
wasn't  laughing,  and  Ben  suddenly  understood  that  Victor  and  Belch  
were  laughing  because
they  were  relieved.  It  was  obvious  to  both  of  them  that  Henry  
couldn't  be serious.  Except
Henry was.

The  Buck  knife  slid  upward,  smooth  as  butter.  Blood  welled  in  a  
bright  red  line  on  Ben's
pallid skin.

'Hey!' Victor cried. The word came out muffled, in a startled gulp.

'Hold  him!'  Henry  snarled.  'You  just  hold  him,  hear  me?'  Now  there  
was  nothing  grave  and
reflective on Henry's face; now it was the twisted face of a devil.

'Jeezwm-crow Henry don't really cut im!'  Belch screamed, and his voice was 
high, almost a

girl's voice.

Everything  happened  fast  then,  but  to  Ben  Hanscom  it  all  seemed  
slow;  it  all  seemed  to
happen  in  a  series  of  shutterclicks,  like  action  stills  in  a  
Life-magazine photo-essay. His panic
was  gone.  He  had  discovered  something  inside  him  suddenly,  and  
because  it  had  no  use  for
panic, that something just ate the panic whole.

In  the  first  shutterclick,  Henry  had  snatched  his  sweatshirt  all  the  
way  up  to  his  nipples.

Blood was pouring from the shallow vertical cut above his bellybutton.

In  the  second  shutterclick,  Henry  drew  the  knife  down  again,  
operating  fast,  like  a  lunatic
battle-surgeon under an aerial bombardment. Fresh blood Sowed.

Backward,  Ben thought coldly as blood flowed down and pooled between the 
waistband of
his jeans and his skin. Got to go backward. That's the only direction I can get 
away in.  Belch
and  Victor  weren't  holding  him  anymore.  In spite  of  Henry's  command,  
they  had  drawn  away.
They had drawn away in horror. But if he ran, Bowers would catch him.

In  the  third  shutterclick,  Henry  connected  the  two  vertical  slashes  
with  a  short  horizontal
line.   Ben   could   feel   blood   running   into   his   underpants   now,   
and   a   sticky   snail-trail  was
creeping down his left thigh.

Henry   leaned   back   momentarily,   frowning   with   the   studied   
concentration   of   an   artist
painting  a  landscape.  After  H  comes  E,   Ben  thought,  and  that  was  
all  it  took  to  get  him
moving.  He  pulled  forward  a  little  bit  and  Henry  shoved  him  back  
again.  Ben  pushed  with  his
legs,  adding  his  own  force  to  Henry's.  He  hit  the  white-washed 
railing between Kansas Street
and  the  drop  into  the  Barrens.  As  he  did,  he  raised  his  right  foot 
 and  planted  it  in  Henry's
belly. This was not a retaliatory act; Ben only wanted to increase his backward 
force. And yet
when  he  saw  the  expression  of  utter  surprise  on  Henry's  face,  he  
was  filled  with  a  clear
savage  joy  —  a  feeling  so  intense  that  for  a  split  second  he  
thought  the  top  of  his  head  was
going to come off.

Then  there  was  a  cracking,  splintering  sound  from  the  railing.  Ben  
saw  Victor  and  Belch
catch  Henry  before  he  could  fall  on  his  ass  in  the  gutter  next  to  
the  remains  of Bulldozer, and
then Ben was falling backward into space. He went with a scream that was half a 
laugh.


Ben  hit  the  slope  on  his  back  and  buttocks  just  below  the  culvert  
he  had  spotted  earlier.  It
was  a  good  thing  he  landed  below  it;  if  he  had  landed  on  it,  he  
might  well  have  broken  his
back.  As  it  was?  he  landed  on  a  thick  cushion  of  weeds  and  bracken 
 and  barely  felt  the
impact.  He  did  a  backward  somersault,  feet  and  legs  snapping  over  
his  head.  He  landed
sitting  up  and  went  sliding  down  the  slope  backward  like  a  kid  on  
a  big  green  Chute-the-
Chute,  his  sweatshirt  pulled  up  around  his  neck,  his  hands  grabbing  
for  purchase  and  doing
nothing but yanking out tuft after tuft of bracken and witch-grass.

He  saw the top of the embankment (it seemed impossible that he had just been 
standing up
there)  receding  with  crazy  cartoon  speed.  He  saw  Victor  and  Belch,  
their  faces  round  white
O's,  staring  down  at  him.  He  had  time  to  mourn  his  library  books.  
Then  he  fetched up against
something with agonizing force and nearly bit his tongue in half.

It  was  a  downed  tree,  and  it  checked  Ben's  fall  by  nearly  breaking  
his  left  leg.  He  clawed
his  way  back  up  the  slope  a  little  bit,  pulling  his  leg  free  with  
a  groan.  The  tree had stopped
him  about  halfway  down.  Below,  the  bushes  were  thicker.  Water  falling 
 from  the  culvert  ran
over his hands in thin streams.

There  was  a  shriek  from  above  him.  Ben  looked  up  again  and  saw  
Henry  Bowers  come
flying  over  the  drop,  his  knife  clenched  between  his  teeth.  He  
landed  on  both  feet,  body
thrown  backward  at  a  steep  angle  so  he  would  not  overbalance.  He  
skidded  to  the  end  of  a
gigantic  set  of  footprints  and  then  began  to  run  down  the  embankment 
 in  a  series  of  gangling
kangaroo leaps.

'I'n  goin  oo  kill  ooo,  Its!'  Henry was shrieking around the knife, and 
Ben didn't need a UN
translator to tell him Henry was saying I'm going to kill you, Tits.

'I'n gain oo huckin kill ooo!'

Now,  with  that  cold  general's  eye  he  had  discovered  up  above on the 
sidewalk, Ben saw
what he had to do. He managed to gain his feet just before Henry arrived, the 
knife now in his
hand  and  held  straight  out  in  front  of  him  like  a  bayonet.  Ben  was 
 peripherally  aware  that  the
left  leg  of  his  jeans  was  shredded,  and  his  leg  was  bleeding  much  
more  heavily  than  his
stomach  .  .  .  but  it  was  supporting  him,  and  that  meant  it  wasn't  
broken.  At  least  he   hoped
that's what it meant.

Ben  crouched  slightly  to  maintain  his  precarious  balance,  and  as  
Henry  grabbed  at  him
with one hand and swept the knife in a long flat arc with the other, Ben 
stepped aside. He lost
his  balance,  but  as  he  fell  down  he  stuck  out  his  shredded  left  
leg.  Henry's  shins  struck  it,  and
his  legs  were  booted  out  from  under  him  with  great  efficiency. For a 
moment Ben gaped, his
terror  overcome  with  a  mixture  of  awe  and  admiration.  Henry  Bowers  
appeared  to  be  flying
exactly  like  Superman  over  the  fallen  tree  where  Ben  had  stopped.  
His  arms  were  straight  out
in  front  of  him,  the  way  George  Reeves  held  his  arms  out  on  the  
TV  show.  Only  George
Reeves  always  looked  like  flying  was  as  natural  as  taking  a  bath  or 
 eating  lunch  on  the  back
porch. Henry looked like someone had shoved a hot poker up his ass. His mouth 
was opening
and closing. A string of saliva  was  shooting  back  from  one  corner  of  
it,  and  as  Ben  watched,
it splatted against the lobe of Henry's ear.

Then  Henry  crashed  back  to  earth.  The  knife  flew  out  of  his  hand.  
He  rolled  over  on  one
shoulder,  landed  on  his  back,  and  slid  away  into  the  bushes  with  
his  legs  splayed  into  a  V.

There was a yell. A thud. And then silence.

Ben  sat,  dazed,  looking  at  the  matted  place  in  the  bushes  where  
Henry  had  done  his
disappearing  act.  Suddenly  rocks  and  pebbles  began  to  bounce  by  him.  
He  looked  up  again.
Victor  and  Belch  were  now  descending  the  embankment.  They  were  moving 
 more  carefully
than  Henry,  and  hence  more  slowly,  but  they  would  reach  him  in  
thirty  seconds  or  less  if  he
didn't do something. — ' He moaned. Would this lunacy never end?

Keeping his  eye  on  them,  he  clambered  over  the  downed  tree  and  began 
 to  scramble  down

the  embankment,  panting  harshly.  He  had  a  stitch  in  his  side.  His  
tongue  hurt  like  hell.  The


bushes  were  no  w  almost  as  tall  as  Ben  himself.  The  randy  green  
smell  of  stuff  growing  out
of  control  filled  his  nose.  He  could  hear  running  water  somewhere  
close,  chuckling  over
stones and rilling between them.

His  feet  slipped  and  here  he  went  again,  rolling  and  sliding,  
smashing  the  back  of  his  hand
against  a  jutting  rock,  shooting  through  a  patch  of  thorns  that  
hooked  blue-gray  puffs  of
cotton from his sweatshirt and little divots of meat from his hands and cheeks.

He  slammed  to  a  jarring  halt  sitting  up,  with  his  feet  in  the  
water.  Here  was  a  little  curving
stream  which  wound  its  way  into  a  thick  stand  of  second-growth  trees 
 to  his  right;  it  looked
as  dark  as  a  cave  in  there.  He  looked  to  his  left  and  saw  Henry  
Bowers  lying  on  his  back  in
the  middle  of  the  stream.  His  half-open eyes showed only whites. Blood 
trickled from one ear
and ran toward Ben in delicate threads.

Oh my God I killed him! Oh my God I'm a murderer! Oh my God!

Forgetting  that  Belch  and  Victor  were  behind  him  (or  perhaps  
understanding  they  would
lose  all  interest  in  beating  the  shit  out  of  him  when  they  
discovered  their  Fearless  Leader  was
dead),  Ben  splashed  twenty  feet  upstream  to  where  Henry  lay,  his  
shirt  in  ribbons,  his  jeans
soaked  black,  one  shoe  gone.  Ben  was  vaguely  aware  that  there  was  
precious  little  left  of  his
own  clothes  and  that  his  body  was  one big rattletrap of aches and pains. 
His left ankle was the
worst;  it  had  already  puffed  tight  against  his  soaking  sneaker  and  
he  was  favoring  it  so  badly
that  he  was  really  not  walking  but  lurching  like  a  sailor  on  shore  
for  the  first  time  after  a  long
sea voyage.

He  bent  over  Henry  Bowers.  Henry's  eyes  popped  wide  open.  He  grabbed 
 Ben's  calf  with
one  scraped  and  bloody  hand.  His  mouth  worked,  and  although  nothing  
but  a  series  of
whistling aspirations emerged, Ben could  still  make  out  what  he  was  
saying: Kill you, you fat
shit.

Henry  was  trying  to  pull  himself  up,  using  Ben's  leg  as  a  pole.  
Ben  pulled  backward
frantically.  Henry's  hand  slipped  down,  then  off.  Ben  flew  backward,  
whirling  his  arms,  and
fell        on  his  ass  for  a  record-breaking third time  in  the  last  
four  minutes.  He  also  bit  his  tongue
again.  Water  splashed  up  around  him.  A  rainbow  glimmered  for  an  
instant  in  front  of  Ben's
eyes.  Ben  didn't  give  a  fuck  about  the  rainbow.  He  didn't  give  a  
fuck  about  finding  a  pot  of
gold. He would settle for his miserable fat life.

Henry  rolled  over.  Tried  to  stand.  Fell  back.  Managed  to  get  to  his 
 hands  and  knees.  And
finally  tottered  to  his  feet.  He  stared  at  Ben  with  those  black  
eyes.  The  front  of  his  flattop
now leaned this way and that, like cornhusks after a high wind has passed 
through.

Ben was suddenly angry. No  —  this was more than being angry. He was  
infuriated. He had
been  walking  with  his  library  books  under  his  arm,  having  an  
innocent  little  daydream  about
kissing  Beverly  Marsh,  bothering  nobody.  And  look  at  this.  Just   
look.  Pants  shredded.  Left
ankle maybe broken, badly sprained for sure. Leg all cut up, tongue all cut up, 
Henry goddam
Bowers's monogram on his stomach. How about all that happy crappy, sports fans? 
But it was
probably the  thought  of  his  library  books,  for  which  he  was  liable,  
that  drove  him  to  charge
Henry  Bowers.  His  lost  library  books  and  his  mental  image  of  how  
reproachful  Mrs  Starrett's
eyes  would  become  when  he  told  her.  Whatever  the  reason  —  cuts,  
sprain,  library  books, or
even  the  thought  of  the  soggy  and  probably  illegible  rank-card  in  
his  back  pocket   —  it was
enough  to  get  him  moving.  He  lumbered  forward,  squashy  Keds  spatting  
in  the  shallow
water, and kicked Henry squarely in the balls.

Henry  uttered  a  horrid  rusty  scream  that  sent  birds  beating  up  from  
the  trees.  He  stood
spraddle-legged  for  a  moment,  hands  clasping  his  crotch,  staring  
unbelievingly  at  Ben.  'Ug,'
he said in a small voice.

'Right,' Ben said.

'Ug,' Henry said, in an even smaller voice.
'Right,' Ben said again.


Henry  sank  slowly  back  to  his  knees,  not  so  much  falling  as  folding 
 up.  He  was  still
looking at Ben with those unbelieving black eyes.

'Ug.'

'Damn right,' Ben said.

Henry  fell  on  his  side,  still  clutching  his  testicles,  and  began  to  
roll  slowly  from  side  to
side.

'Ug!'   Henry   moaned.   'My   balls.   Ug!   Oh   you   broke   my   balls.   
Ug-ug!'  He  was  now
beginning  to  gain  a  little  force,  and  Ben  started  to  back  away  a  
step  at  a  time.  He  was
sickened  by  what  he  had  done,  but  he  was  also  filled  with  a  kind  
of  righteous,  paralyzed
fascination. 'Ug! — my fuckin sack — ug-UG! — oh my fuckin BALLS!'

Ben  might  have  remained  in  the  area  for  an  untold  length  of  time   
—  perhaps  even  until
Henry  recovered  enough  to  come  after  him  —  but just then a rock struck 
him above the right
ear  with  such  a  deep,  drilling  pain  that,  until  he  felt  warm  blood  
flowing  again,  Ben  thought
he had been stung by a wasp.

He  turned  and  saw  the  other  two  striding  up  the  middle  of  the  
stream  toward  him.  They
each  had  a  handful  of  water-rounded  rocks.  Victor  pegged  one  and  Ben 
 heard  it  whistle  past
his  ear.  He  ducked  and  another  struck  his  right  knee,  making  him  
yell  with  surprised  hurt.  A
third bounced off his right cheekbone, and that eye filled with water.

He  scrambled  for  the  far  bank  and  climbed  it  as  fast  as  he  could,  
grabbing  onto  protruding
roots  and  hauling  on  handfuls  of  bushes.  He  made  it  to  the  top  
(one  final  stone  struck  his
buttocks as he pulled himself up) and took a quick look back over his shoulder.

Belch  was  kneeling  beside  Henry  while  Victor  stood  half  a  dozen  feet 
 away,  firing  stones;

one  the  size  of  a  baseball  clipped  through  the  man-high  bushes  
beside  Ben.  He  had  seen
enough;  in  fact,  he  had  seen  much  more  than  enough.  Worst  of  all, 
Henry Bowers was getting
up  again.  Like  Ben's  own  Timex  watch,  Henry  could  take  a  licking  
and  keep  on  ticking.  Ben
turned  and  smashed  his  way  into  the  bushes,  lumbering  along  in  a  
direction  he  hoped  was
west.  If  he  could  cross  to  the  Old  Cape  side  of  the  Barrens,  he  
could  beg  a  dime  off
somebody and take the bus home. And when he got there he would lock the door 
behind him
and  bury these tattered bloody clothes in the trash and this crazy dream would 
finally be over.
Ben  thought  of  himself  sitting  in  his  chair  in  the  living  room,  
freshly  tubbed,  wearing  his
fuzzy  red  bathrobe,  watching  Daffy  Duck  cartoons  on  The  Mighty  Ninety 
 and drinking milk
through   a   strawberry   Flav-R-Straw.  Hold  that  thought,  he  told  
himself  grimly,  and  kept
lumbering along.

Bushes  sprang  into  his  face.  Ben  pushed  them  aside.  Thorns  reached  
and  clawed.  He  tried

to  ignore  them.  He  came  to  a  flat  area  of  ground  that  was  black  
and  mucky.  A  thick  stand  of
bamboo-like  growth  spread  across  it  and  a  fetid  smell  rose  from  the  
earth.  An  ominous
thought

(quicksand)

slipped  across  the  foreground  of  his  mind  like  a  shadow  as  he  
looked  at  the  sheen  of
standing  water  deeper  into  the  grove  of  bamboo-stuff. He didn't want to 
go in there. Even if it
wasn't  quicksand,  the  mud  would  suck  his  sneakers  off.  He  turned  
right  instead,  running
along the front of the bamboo-grove and finally into a patch of real woods.

The  trees,  mostly  firs,  were  thick,  growing  everywhere,  battling  each  
other  for  a  little  space
and  sun,  but  there  was  less  undergrowth  and  he  could  move  faster.  
He  was  no  longer  sure
what  direction  he  was  moving  in,  but  still  thought  he  was,  on  
measure,  a  little  ahead  of  the
game.  The  Barrens  were  enclosed  by  Derry  on  three  sides  and  bounded  
by  the  half-finished
turnpike extension on the fourth. Sooner or later he would come out somewhere.

His  stomach  throbbed  painfully,  and  he  pulled  up  the  remains  of  his  
sweatshirt  for  a  look.
He  winced  and  drew  a  whistle  of  air  in  over  his  teeth.  His  belly  
looked  like  a  grotesque
Christmas-tree   ball,   all   caked   red   blood   and   smeared   green   
from   his   slide   down   the


embankment.  He  pulled  the  sweatshirt  down  again.  Looking  at  that  mess 
 made  him  feel  like
blowing lunch.

Now  he  heard  a  low  humming  noise  from  ahead   —  it  was  one  steady  
note  just  above  the
low  range  of  his  hearing.  An  adult,  intent  only  on  getting  the  hell 
 out  of  there  (the  mosquitoes
had found Ben now, and while nowhere near as big as sparrows, they were pretty 
big), would
have  ignored  it,  or  simply  not  heard  it  at  all.  But  Ben  was  a  
boy,  and  he  was  already  getting
over  his  fright.  He  swerved  to  his  left  and  pushed  through  some  low 
 laurel  bushes.  Beyond
them,  sticking  out  of  the  ground,  were  the  top  three  feet  of  a  
cement  cylinder  about  four  feet
wide.  It  was  capped  with  a  vented  iron  manhole  cover.  The  cover  was 
 stamped  with  the
words  DERRY  SEWER  DEFT.  The sound  —  this  close  it  was  more  a  drone  
than  a  hum  — was
coming from someplace deep inside.

Ben  put  one  eye  to  a  venthole  but  could  see  nothing.  He  could  hear 
 that  drone,  and  water
running  down  there  someplace,  but  that  was  all.  He  took  a  breath,  
got  a  whiff  of  a  sour  smell
that  was  both  dank  and  shitty,  and  drew  back  with  a  wince.  It  was  
a  sewer,  that  was  all.  Or
maybe   a   combined   sewer   and   drainage-tunnel   —   there   were   
plenty   of   those   in   flood-
conscious  Derry.  No  big  deal.  But  it  had  given  him  a  funny  sort  of 
 chill.  Part  of  it  was  seeing
the  handiwork  of  man  in  all  this  overgrown  jumble  of  wilderness,  but 
 he  supposed  part  of  it
was  the  shape  of  the  thing  itself  —  that  concrete  cylinder  jutting  
out  of  the  ground.  Ben  had
read H. G. Wells's   The Time Machine  the  year  before,  first  the  Classics 
 Comics  version  and
then  the  whole  book.  This  cylinder  with  its  vented  iron  cap  reminded 
 him  of  the  wells  which
lead down into the country of the slumped and horrible Morlocks.

He  moved  away  from  it  quickly,  trying  to  find  west  again.  He  got  
to  a  link  clearing  and

turned until his shadow was as directly behind him as he could get it. Then he 
headed off in a
straight line.

Five minutes later he heard more running water ahead, and voices. Kids' voices.

He  stopped  to  listen,  and  that  was  when  he  heard  snapping  branches  
and  other  voices
behind  him.  They  were  perfectly  recognizable.  They  belonged  to  Victor, 
 Belch,  and  the  one
and only Henry Bowers.

The nightmare was not over yet, it seemed.

Ben looked around for a place to go to earth.

10

He  came  out  of  his  hiding  place  about  two  hours  later,  dirtier  than 
 ever,  but  a  little  refreshed.
Incredible as it seemed to him, he had dozed off.

When  he  had  heard  the  three  of  them  behind  him,  coming  after  him  
still,  Ben  had  come
dangerously  close  to  freezing  up  completely,  like  an  animal  caught  in 
 the  headlamps  of  an
oncoming  truck.  A  paralytic  drowsiness  began  to  steal  over  him.  The  
idea  of  simply  lying
down,  curling  up  into  a  ball  like  a  hedgehog,  and  letting  them  do  
whatever  they  felt  they  had
to occurred to him. It was a crazy idea, but it also seemed like a strangely 
good idea.

But instead Ben began to move toward the sound of the running water and those 
other kids.
He  tried  to  untangle  their  voices  and  get  the  sense  of  what  they  
were  saying  — anything to
shake  off  that  scary  paralysis  of  the  spirit.  Some  project.  They  
were  talking  about  some
project.  One  or  two  of  the  voices  were  even  a little  familiar.  There 
 was  a  splash,  followed  by
a  burst  of  good-natured  laughter.  The  laughter  filled  Ben  with  a  
kind  of  stupid  longing,  and
made him more aware of his dangerous position than anything else had done.

If  he  was  going  to  be  caught,  there  was  no  need  to  let  these  kids 
 in  for  a  dose  of  his
medicine.  Ben  turned  right  again.  Like  many  large  people,  he  was  
remarkably  light-footed.
He passed close enough to the boys to see their shadows moving back and forth 
between him


and  the  bright  water,  but  they  neither  saw  him  nor  heard  him.  
Gradually  their  voices  began  to
fall behind.

He came to a narrow path which had been beaten down to the bare earth. Ben 
considered it
for  a  moment,  then  shook  his  head  a  little.  He  crossed  it  and  
plunged  into  the  undergrowth
again.  He  moved  more  slowly  now,  pushing  bushes  aside  rather  than  
stampeding  through
them.  He  was  still  moving  roughly  parallel  to  the  stream  the  other  
kids  had  been  playing
beside.  Even  through  the  intervening  bushes  and  trees  he  could  see  
it   was  much  wider  than
the one into which he and Henry had fallen.

Here  was  another  of  those  concrete  cylinders,  barely  visible  amid  a  
snarl  of  blackberry

creepers,  humming  quietly  to  itself.  Beyond,  an  embankment  dropped  off 
 to  the  stream,  and
here  an  old,  gnarled  elm  tree  leaned  crookedly  out  over  the  water.  
Its  roots,  half-exposed by
bank erosion, looked like a snarl of dirty hair.

Hoping  there  wouldn't  be  bugs  or  snakes  but  too  tired  and  numbly  
frightened  to  really  care,
Ben  had  worked  his  way  between the roots and into a shallow cave beneath. 
He leaned back.
A  root  jabbed  him  like  an  angry  finger.  He  shifted  his  position  a  
little  and  it  supported  him
quite nicely.

Here  came  Henry,  Belch,  and  Victor.  He  had  thought  they  might  be  
fooled  into  following
the path, but no such luck. They stood close by him for a moment  — any closer 
and he could
have reached out of his hiding place and touched them.

'Bet them little snotholes back there saw him,' Belch said.

'Well, let's go find out,' Henry replied, and they headed back the way they had 
come. A few
moments later Ben heard him roar: 'What the fuck you kids doin here?'

There was some sort of reply, but Ben couldn't tell what it was: the kids were 
too far away,
and  this  close  the  river  —  it  was the  Kenduskeag,  of  course  — was 
too loud. But he thought
the kid sounded scared. Ben could sympathize.

Then  Victor  Criss  bellowed  something  Ben  hadn't  understood  at  all:  
'What  a  fuckin  baby
dam!'

Baby  dam?  Baby  damn?  Or maybe Victor had said what  a damn bunch of babies 
and Ben
had misheard him.

'Let's break it!' Belch proposed.

There  were  yells  of  protest  followed  by  a  scream  of  pain.  Someone  
began  to  cry.  Yes,  Ben
could  sympathize.  They  hadn't  been  able  to  catch  him  (or  at  least  
not  yet),  but  here  was
another bunch of little kids for them to take out their mad on.

'Sure, break it,' Henry said.

Splashes.   Yells.   Big   moronic   gusts   of   laughter   from   Belch   and 
  Victor.   An   agonized
infuriated cry from one of the little kids.

'Don't  gimme  any  of  your  shit,  you  stuttering  little  freak,'  Henry  
Bowers  said.  'I  ain't  takin
no more shit from nobody today.'

There  was  a  splintering  crack.  The  sound  of  running  water  downstream  
grew  louder  and

roared  briefly  before  quieting  to  its  former  placid  chuckle.  Ben  
suddenly  understood.  Baby
dam, yes, that was what Victor had said. The kids  — two or three of them it 
had sounded like
when he passed by  —  had been building a dam. Henry and his friends had just 
kicked it apart.
Ben even thought he knew who  one  of  the  kids  was.  The  only  'stuttering  
little  freak'  he  knew
from Derry School was Bill Denbrough, who was in the other fifth-grade 
classroom.

'You  didn't  have  to  do  that!'  a  thin  and  fearful  voice  cried  out,  
and  Ben  recognized  that
voice as well, although he could not immediately put a face with it. 'Why did 
you do that?'

'Because  I  felt   like  it,  fucknuts!'  Henry  roared  back.  There  was  a  
meaty  thud.  It  was
followed by a scream of pain. The scream was followed by weeping.

'Shut  up,'  Victor  said. 'Shut up that crying, kid, or I'll pull your ears 
down and tie em under

your chin.'


The crying became a series of choked snuffles.

'We're going,' Henry said, 'but before we do, I want to know one thing. You 
seen a fat kid
in the last ten minutes or so? Big fat kid all bloody and cut up?'

There was a reply too brief to be anything but no.

'You sure?' Belch asked. 'You better be, mushmouth.'
'I-I-I'm sh-sh-sure,' Bill Denbrough replied.

'Let's go,' Henry said. 'He probably waded acrost back that way.'

'Ta-ta,  boys,'  Victor  Criss  called.  'It  was  a  real  baby  dam,  believe 
 me.  You're  better  off
without it.'

Splashing  sounds.  Belch's  voice  came  again,  but  farther  away  now.  Ben 
 couldn't  make  out
the  words.  In  fact,  he  didn't  want  to  make  out  the  words.  Closer  
by,  the  boy  who  had  been
crying  now  resumed.  There  were  comforting  noises  from  the  other  boy.  
Ben  had  decided
there was just the two of them, Stuttering Bill and the weeper.

He  half-sat,  half-lay  where  he  was,  listening  to  the  two  boys  by  
the  river  and  the  fading
sounds  of  Henry  and  his  dinosaur  friends  crashing  toward  the  far  
side  of  the  Barrens.  Sunlight
flicked  at  his  eyes  and  made  little  coins  of  light  on  the  tangled  
roots  above  and  around  him.  It
was  dirty  in  here,  but  it  was  also  cozy  .  .  .  safe.  The  sound  of 
 running  water  was  soothing.
Even the sound of the crying kid was sort of soothing. His aches and pains had 
faded to a dull
throb,  and  the  sound  of  the  dinosaurs  had  faded  out  completely.  He  
would  wait  awhile,  just to
be sure they weren't coming back, and then he would make tracks.

Ben  could  hear  the  throb  of  the  drainage  machinery  coming  through  
the  earth  —  could
even  feel  it:  a  low,  steady  vibration  that  went  from  the  ground  to  
the  root  he  was  leaning
against  and  then  into  his  back.  He  thought  of  the  Morlocks  again,  
of  their  naked  flesh;  he
imagined  it  would  smell  like  the  dank  and  shitty  air  that  had  come  
up  through  the  ventholes
of     that  iron  cap.  He  thought  of  their  wells  driven  deep  into  the 
 earth,  wells  with rusty ladders
bolted to their sides. He dozed, and at some point his thoughts became a dream.

11

It  wasn't  Morlocks  he  dreamed  of.  He  dreamed  of  the  thing  which  had 
 happened  to  him  in
January, the thing which he hadn't quite been able to tell his mother.

It  had  been  the  first  day  of  school  after  the  long  Christmas  break. 
 Mrs  Douglas  had  asked
for  a  volunteer  to  stay  after  and  help  her  count  the  books  that  
had  been  turned  in  just  before
the vacation. Ben had raised his hand.

'Thank  you,  Ben,'  Mrs  Douglas  had  said,  favoring  him  with  a  smile  
of  such  brilliance  that  it
warmed him down to his toes. ,    'Suckass,' Henry Bowers remarked under his 
breath.

It had been the sort of Maine winter day that is both the best and the worst: 
cloudless, eye-
wateringly  bright,  but  so  cold  it  was  a  little  frightening.  To  make  
the  ten-degree  temperature
worse, there was a strong wind to give the cold a bitter cutting edge.

Ben  counted  books  and  called  out  numbers;  Mrs  Douglas  wrote  them  
down  (not  bothering

to  double -check his work even on a random basis, he was proud to note), and 
then they both
carried  the  books  down  to  the  storage  room  through  halls  where  
radiators  clanked  dreamily.
At  first  the  school  had  been  full  of  sounds:  slamming  locker  doors,  
the  clackety-clack of Mrs
Thomas's  typewriter   in   the   office,   the   slightly   off-key   choral   
renditions   of   the   glee   club
upstairs,  the  nervous  thud-thud-thud  of  basketballs  from  the  gym  and  
the  scrooch  and  thud  of
sneakers as players drove toward the baskets or cut turns on the polished wood 
floor.

Little  by  little  these  sounds  ceased,  until,  as  the  last  set  of  
books  was  totted  up  (one  short,
but  it  hardly  mattered,  Mrs  Douglas  sighed  —  they were all holding 
together on a wing and a


prayer), the only sounds were the radiators, the faint  whissh-whissh of Mr 
Fazio's broom as he
pushed colored sawdust up the hall floor, and the howl of the wind outside.

Ben  looked  toward  the  book  room's  one  narrow  window  and  saw  that  
the  light  was  fading
rapidly  from  the  sky.  It  was four o'clock and dusk was at hand. Membranes 
of dry snow blew
around  the  icy  jungle  gym  and  skirled  between  the  teetertotters,  
which  were  frozen  solidly
into  the  ground.  Only  the  thaws  of  April  would  break  those  bitter  
winter-welds.  He  saw  no
one at all  on  Jackson  Street.  He  looked  a  moment  longer,  expecting  a  
car  to  roll  through  the
Jackson-Witcham   intersection,   but   none   did.   Everyone   in   Derry   
save   himself   and   Mrs
Douglas might be dead or fled, at least from what he could see from here.

He  looked  toward  her  and  saw,  with  a  touch  of  real  fright,  that  
she  was  feeling  almost
exactly  the  same  things  he  was  feeling  himself.  He  could  tell  by  
the  look  in  her  eyes.  They
were  deep  and  thoughtful  and  far  off,  not  the  eyes  of  a  
schoolteacher  in  her  forties  but  those
of  a child. Her hands were folded just below her breasts, as if in prayer.

I'm scared, Ben thought, and she's scared, too. But what are we realty scared 
of?

He  didn't  know.  Then  she  looked  at  him  and  uttered  a  short,  almost  
embarrassed  laugh.
'I've kept you too late,' she said. 'I'm sorry, Ben.'

'That's  okay.'  He  looked  down  at  his  shoes.  He  loved  her  a  little   
—  not  with  the  frank
unquestioning  love  he  had  lavished  on  Miss  Thibodeau,  his  first-grade  
teacher  .  .  .  but  he  did
love her.

'If  I  drove,  I'd  give  you  a  ride,'  she  said,  'but  I  don't.  My  
husband's  going  to  pick  me  up
around quarter past five. If you'd care to wait, we could — '

'No thanks,' Ben said. 'I ought to get home before then.' This was not really 
the truth, but he

felt a queer aversion to the idea of meeting Mrs Douglas's husband.
'Maybe your mother could — '

'She doesn't drive, either,' Ben said. 'I'll be all right. It's only a mile 
home.'

'A  mile's  not  far  when  it's  nice,  but  it  can  be  a  very  long  way  
in  this  weather.  You'll  go  in
somewhere if it gets too cold, won't you, Ben?'

'Aw,  sure.  I'll  go  into  Costello's  Market  and  stand  by  the  stove  a  
little  while,  or  something.

Mr Gedreau doesn't mind. And I got my snowpants. My new Christmas scarf, too.'

Mrs  Douglas  looked  a  little  reassured  .  .  .  and  then  she  glanced  
toward  the  window  again.
'It just looks so cold out there,' she said. 'So . . . so inimical.'

He didn't know the word but he knew exactly what she meant. Something just 
happened —
what?

He had seen her, he realized suddenly, as a person instead of just a teacher. 
That was what

had  happened.  Suddenly  he  had  seen  her  face  in  an  entirely  different 
 way,  and  because  he
did,  it  became  a  new  face   —  the  face  of  a  tired  poet.  He  could  
see  her  going home with her
husband,  sitting  beside  him  in  the  car  with  her  hands  folded  as  the 
 heater  hissed  and  he  talked
about  his  day.  He  could  see  her  making  them  dinner.  An  odd  thought  
crossed  his  mind  and  a
cocktail-party question rose to his lips: Do you have children, Mrs Douglas?

'I  often  think  at  this  time  of  the  year  that  people  really  weren't  
meant  to  live  this  far  north
of  the  equator,'  she  said.  'At  least  not  in  this  latitude.'  Then  
she  smiled  and  some  of  the
strangeness  either  went  out  of  her  face or his eye  —  he was able to see 
her, at least partially,
as         he  always  had.  But  you'll  never  see  her  that  way  again,  
not  completely,  he thought,
dismayed.

'I'll  feel  old  until  spring,  and  then  I'll  feel  young  again.  It's  
that  way  every  year.  Are  you
sure you'll be all right, Ben?'

'I'll be fine.'

'Yes, I suppose you will. You're a good boy, Ben.'

He looked back at his toes, blushing, loving her more than ever.


In  the  hallway  Mr  Fazio  said:  'Be  careful  of  de  fros'bite,  boy,'  
without  looking up from his
red sawdust.

'I will.'

He  reached  his  locker,  opened  it,  and  yanked  on  his  snowpants.  He  
had  been  painfully
unhappy  when  his  mother  insisted  he  wear  them  again  this  winter  on  
especially  cold  days,
thinking  of  them  as  baby  clothes,  but  he  was  glad  to  have  them  
this  afternoon.  He  walked
slowly  toward  the  door,  zipping  his  coat,  yanking  the  drawstrings  of  
his  hood  tight,  pulling  on
his  mittens.  He  went  out  and  stood  on  the  snowpacked  top  step  of  
the  front  stairs  for  a
moment, listening as the door snicked closed — and locked — behind him.

Derry  School  brooded  under  a  bruised  skin  of  sky.  The  wind  blew  
steadily.  The  snap-
hooks  on  the  flagpole  rope  rattled  a  lonesome  tattoo  against  the  
steel  pole  itself.  That  wind
cut into the warm and unprepared flesh of Ben's face at once, numbing his 
cheeks.

Be careful of de fros'bite, boy.

He  quickly  pulled  his  scarf  up  until  he  looked  like  a  small,  pudgy  
caricature  of  Red  Ryder.
That  darkening  sky  had  a  fantastical  sort  of  beauty,  but  Ben  did not 
pause to admire it; it was
too cold for that. He got going.

At  first  the  wind  was  at  his  back  and  things  didn't  seem  so  bad;  
in  fact,  it  actually  seemed
to  be  helping  him  along.  At  Canal  Street,  however,  he  had  to  turn  
right  and  almost  fully  into
the  wind.  Now  it  seemed  to  be  holding  him  back  .  .  .  as  if  it  
had  business  with  him.  His  scarf
helped  a  little,  but  not  enough.  His  eyes  throbbed  and  the  moisture  
in  his  nose  froze  to  a
crack-glaze.  His  legs  were  going  numb.  Several  times  he  stuck  his  
mittened  hands  into  his
armpits    to  warm  them  up.  The  wind  whooped  and  screamed,  sometimes  
sounding  almost
human.

Ben   felt   both   frightened   and   exhilarated.   Frightened   because   he 
  could   now   understand
stories  he  had  read,  such  as  Jack  London's  'To  Build  a  Fire,' where 
people actually froze to
death.  It  would  be  all  too  possible  to  freeze  to  death  on  a  night  
like  this,  a  night  when  the
temperature would drop to fifteen below.

The  exhilaration  was  hard  to  explain.  It  was  a  lonely  feeling  —  a  
somehow  melancholy
feeling.  He  was  outside;  he  passed  on  the  wings  of  the  wind,  and  
none  of  the  people  beyond
the  brightly  lighted  squares  of  their  windows  saw  him.  They  were  
inside,  inside  where  there
was  light  and  warmth.  They  didn't  know  he  had  passed  them;  only  he  
knew.  It  was  a  secret
thing.

The  moving  air  burned  like  needles,  but  it  was  fresh  and  clean.  
White  smoke  jetted  from
his nose in neat little streams.

And  as  sundown  came,  the  last  of  the  day  a  cold  yellowy-orange  line 
 on  the  western
horizon,  the  fir st  stars  cruel  diamond-chips  glimmering  in  the  sky  
overhead,  he  came  to  the
Canal.  He  was  only  three  blocks  from  home  now,  and  eager  to  feel  
the  heat  on  his  face  and
legs, moving the blood again, making it tingle.

Still — he paused.

The  Canal  was  frozen  in  its  concrete  sluice  like  a  frozen  river  of  
rose-milk,  its  surface
humped   and   cracked   and   cloudy.   It   was   moveless   yet   completely 
  alive   in   this   harshly
puritanical winterlight; it had its own unique and difficult beauty.

Ben  turned  the  other  way  —  southwest.  Toward  the  Barrens.  When  he  
looked  in  this
direction,  the  wind  was  at  his  back  again.  It  made  his  snowpants  
ripple  and  flap.  The  Canal
ran  straight  between  its  concrete  walls  for  perhaps  half  a  mile;  
then  the  concrete  was  gone
and  the  river  sprawled its way into the Barrens, at this time of the year a 
skeletal world of icy
brambles and jutting naked branches.

A figure was standing on the ice down there.

Ben stared at it and thought: There may be a man down there, but can he be 
wearing  what
it looks like he's wearing? It's impossible, isn't it?


The  figure  was  dressed  in  what  appeared  to  be  a  white-silver  clown  
suit.  It  rippled  around
him  in  the  polar  wind.  There  were  oversized  orange  shoes  on  his  
feet.  They  matched  the
pompom  buttons  which  ran  down  the  front  of  his  suit.  One  hand  
grasped  a  bundle  of  strings
which  rose  to  a  bright  bunch  of  balloons,  and  when  Ben  observed  
that  the  balloons  were
floating  in  his  direction,  he  felt  unreality  wash  over  him  more  
strongly.  He  closed  his  eyes,
rubbed them, opened them. The balloons still appeared to be floating toward 
him.

He heard Mr Fazio's voke in his head. Be careful of de fros'bite, boy.

It  had  to  be  a  hallucination  or  a  mirage  brought  on  by  some  weird  
trick  of  the  weather.
There  could  be  a  man  down  there  on  the  ice;  he  supposed  it  was  
even  technically  possible  he
could  be  wearing  a  clown  suit.  But  the  balloons  couldn't  be  floating 
 toward  Ben,  into  the
wind. Yet that was just what they appeared to be doing.

Ben!  the  clown  on  the  ice  called.  Ben  thought  that  voice  was  only  
in  his  mind, although it
seemed he heard it with his ears. Want a balloon, Ben?

There was something so evil in that voice, so awful, that Ben wanted to run 
away as fast as

he  could,  but  his  feet  seemed  as  welded  to  this  sidewalk  as  the  
teetertotters  in  the  schoolyard
were welded to the ground.

They float, Ben! They all float! Try one and see!

The  clown  began  walking  along  the  ice  toward  the  Canal  bridge  where  
Ben  stood.  Ben
watched  him  come,  not  moving;  he  watched  as  a  bird  watches  an  
approaching  snake.  The
balloons  should  have  burst  in  the  intense  cold,  but  they  did  not;  
they  floated  above  and  ahead
of  the  clown  when  they  should  have  been  streaming  out  behind  him,  
trying  to  escape  back
into  the  Barrens . . . where, some part of Ben's mind assured him, this 
creature had come from
in the first place.

Now Ben noticed something else.

Although  the  last  of  the  daylight  had  struck  a  rosy  glow  across  the 
 ice  of  the  Canal,  the
clown cast no shadow. None at all.

You'll  like  it  here,  Ben,   the  clown  said.  Now  it  was  close  enough  
so  Ben  could  hear  the
dud-dud  sound its funny shoes made as they advanced over the uneven ice.  
You'll like it here,
I  promise,  all  the  boys  and  girls  I  meet  like  it  here  because  it's 
 like  Pleasure  Island  in
Pinocchio and Never-Never Land in  Peter Pan; they never have to grow up and 
that's what all
the  kiddies  want!  So  come  on!  See  the  sights,  have  a  balloon,  feed  
the  elephants,  ride  the
Chute-the-Chutes! Oh you'II like it and oh Ben how you'II float —

And  in  spite  of  his  fear,  Ben  found  that  part  of  him  did  want  a  
balloon.  Who  in  all  the
world  owned  a  balloon  which  would  float  into  the  wind?  Who  had  even 
 heard  of  such  a
thing?  Yes  .  .  .  he  wanted  a  balloon,  and  he  wanted  to  see the 
clown's face, which was bent
down toward the ice, as if to keep it out of that killer wind.

What  might  have  happened  if  the  five  o'clock  whistle  atop  the  Derry  
Town  Hall  hadn't
blown  just  then  Ben  didn't  know  .  .  .  didn't  want to know. The 
important thing was that it  did
blow,  an  ice-pick  of  sound  drilling  into  the  deep  winter  cold.  The  
clown  looked  up,  as  if
startled, and Ben saw its face.

The mummy! Oh my God it's the mummy!  was his first thought, accompanied by a 
swoony
horror  that  caused  him  to  clamp  his  hands  down  viciously  on  the  
bridge's  railing  to  keep  from
fainting.  Of  course  it  hadn't  been  the  mummy,  couldn't  have  been  the 
 mummy.  Oh,  there
were  Egyptian  mummies,  plenty  of  them,  he  knew  that,  but  his  first  
thought  had  been  that  it
was  the  mummy  —  the dusty monster played by Boris Karloff in the old movie 
he had stayed
up late to watch just last month on Shock Theater.

No,  it  wasn't  that  mummy,  couldn't  be,  movie  monsters  weren't  real,  
everyone  knew  that,
even little kids. But —

It  wasn't  make-up  the  clown  was  wearing.  Nor  was  the  clown  simply  
swaddled  in  a  bunch

of bandages. There  were  bandages,  most  of  them  around  its  neck  and  
wrists,  blowing  back  in


the  wind,  but  Ben  could  see  the  clown's  face  clearly.  It  was  deeply 
 lined,  the skin a parchment
map  of  wrinkles,  tattered  cheeks,  arid  flesh.  The  skin  of  its  
forehead  was  split  but  bloodless.
Dead  lips  grinned  back  from  a  maw  in  which  teeth  leaned  like  
tombstones.  Its  gums  were
pitted  and  black.  Ben  could  see  no  eyes,  but  something  glittered far 
back in the charcoal pits
of  those  puckered  sockets,  something  like  the  cold  jewels  in  the  
eyes  of  Egyptian  scarab
beetles.  And  although  the  wind  was  the  wrong  way,  it  seemed  to  him  
that  he  could  smell
cinnamon  and  spice,  rotting  cerements  treated  with  weird  drugs,  sand,  
blood  so  old  it  had
dried    to flakes and grains of rust . . .

'We  all  float  down  here,'  the  mummy-clown  croaked,  and  Ben  realized  
with  fresh  horror
that  somehow  it  had  reached  the  bridge,  it  was  now  just  below  him,  
reaching up with a dry
and  twisted  hand  from  which  flaps  of  skin  rustled  like  pennons,  a  
hand  through  which  bone
like yellow ivory showed.

One  almost  fleshless  finger  caressed  the  tip  of  his  boot.  Ben's  
paralysis  broke.  He  pounded
the  rest  of  the  way  across the  bridge  with  the  five  o'clock  whistle  
still  shrieking  in  his  ears;  it
only  ceased  as  he  reached  the  far  side.  It  had  to  be  a  mirage,  
had  to  be.  The  clown  simply
could not have come so far during the whistle's ten-or fifteen-second blast.

But  his  fear  was  not  a  mirage;  neither  were  the  hot  tears  which  
spurted  from  his  eyes  and
froze  on  his  cheeks  a  second  after  being  shed.  He  ran,  boots  
thudding  on  the  sidewalk,  and
behind  him  he  could  hear  the  mummy  in  the  clown  suit  climbing  up  
from  the  Canal,  ancient
stony  fingernails  scraping  across  iron,  old  tendons  creaking  like  dry  
hinges.  He  could  hear  the
arid  whistle  of  its  breath  pulling  in  and  pushing  out  of  nostrils  
as  devoid  of  moisture  as  the
tunnels  under  the  Great  Pyramid.  He  could  smell  its  shroud  of sandy 
spices and he knew that
in        a  moment  its  hands,  as  fleshless  as  the  geometrical  
constructions  he  made  with  his  Erector
Set.  would  descend  upon  his  shoulders.  They  would  turn  him  around  
and  he  would  stare  into
that  wrinkled,  smiling  face.  The  dead  river  of  its  breath  would  wash 
 over  him.  Those  black
eyesockets  with  their  deep  glowing  depths  would  bend  over  him.  The  
toothless  mouth  would
yawn, and he would have his balloon. Oh yes. All the balloons he wanted.

But  when  he  reached  the  corner  of  his  own  street,  sobbing  and  
winded,  his  heart  slamming
crazed,  leaping  beats  into  his  ears,  when  he  at  last  looked  back  
over  his  shoulder,  the  street
was  empty.  The  arched  bridge  with  its  low  concrete  sides  and  its  
oldfashioned  cobblestone
paving  was  also  empty.  He  could  not  see  the  Canal  itself,  but  he  
felt  that  if  he  could,  he
would  see  nothing  there,  either.  No;  if  the  mummy  had  not  been  a  
hallucination  or  a  mirage,
if      it  had  been  real,  it  would  be  waiting under  the bridge  —  like 
 the  troll  in  the  story  of  The
Three Billy Goats Gruff.'

Under. Hiding under.

Ben  hurried  home,  looking  back  every  few  steps  until  the  door  was  
safely  shut  and  locked
behind  him.  He  explained  to  his  mother  —  who  was  so  tired  from  a  
particularly  hard  day  at
the mill that she had  not,  in  truth,  much  missed  him —  that he had been 
helping Mrs Douglas
count  books.  Then  he  sat  down  to  a  dinner  of  noodles  and  Sunday's  
leftover  turkey.  He
stuffed  three  helpings  into  himself,  and  the  mummy  seemed  more  
distant  and  dreamlike  with
each   helping.  It  was  not  real,  those  things  were  never  real,  they  
came  fully  to  life  only
between  the  commercials  of  the  late-night  TV  movies  or  during  the  
Saturday  matinees,  where
if    you were lucky you could get two monsters for a quarter  — and if you had 
an extra  quarter,
you could buy all the popcorn you could eat.

No,  they  were  not  real.  TV  monsters  and  movie  monsters  and  comic 
-book  monsters  were
not  real.  Not  until  you  went  to  bed  and  couldn't  sleep;  not  until  
the  last  four  pieces  ot  candy,
wrapped  in  tissues and  kept under your pillow against  the  evils  of the  
night, were gobbled up;
not  until  the  bed  itself  turned  into  a  lake  of  rancid  dreams  and  
the  wind  screamed  outside  and
you  were  afraid  to  look  at  the  window  because  there  might  be  a  
face  there,  an  ancie nt
grinning  face  that  had  not  rotted  but  simply  dried  like  an  old  
leaf,  its  eyes  sunken  diamonds


pushed deep into dark sockets; not until you saw one ripped and claw like hand 
holding out a
bunch of balloons:   See  the  sights,  have  a  balloon,  feed  the  
elephants,  ride  the  Chute-the-
Chutes! Ben, oh, Ben, how you'll float —

12

Ben  awoke  with  a  gasp,  the  dream  of  the  mummy  still  on  him,  
panicked  by  the  close,
vibrating  dark  all  around  him.  He  jerked,  and  the  root  stopped  
supporting  him  and  poked  him
in the back again, as if in exasperation.

He  saw  light  and  scrambled  for  it.  He  crawled  out  into  afternoon  
sunlight  and  the  babble  of
the  stream,  and  everything  fell  into  place  again.  It  was  summer,  not 
 winter.  The  mummy  had
not  carried  him  away  to  its  desert  crypt;  Ben  had  simply  hidden  
from  the  big  kids  in  a  sandy
hole  under  a  half-uprooted  tree.  He  was  in  the  Barrens.  Henry  and  
his  buddies  had  gone  to
town in a small way on a couple of kids playing downstream because they hadn't 
been able to
find Ben and go to town on him in a big way. Ta-ta, boys. It was a real baby 
dam, believe me.
You're better off without it.

Ben  looked  glumly  down  at  his  ruined  clothes.  His  mother  was  going  
to  give  him  sixteen
different flavors of holy old hell.

He  had  slept  just  long  enough  to  stiffen  up.  He  slid  down  the  
embankment  and  then  began
to  walk  along  the  stream,  wincing  at  every  step.  He  was  a  medley  
of  aches  and  pains;  it  felt
like  Spike  Jones  was  playing  a  fast  tune  on  broken  glass  inside  
most  of  his  muscles.  There
seemed  to  be  dried  or  drying  blood  on  every  inch  of  exposed  skin.  
The  dam-building kids
would  be  gone  anyway,  he  consoled  himself.  He  wasn't  sure  how  long  
he'd  slept,  but  even  if
it  had  only  been  half  an  hour,  the  encounter  with  Henry  and  his  
friends  would  have convinced
Denbrough  and  his  pal  that  some  other  place  — like Timbuktu, maybe  —  
would be better for
their health.

Ben  plugged  grimly  along,  knowing  if  the  big  kids  came  back  now  he  
would  not  stand  a
chance of outrunning them. He hardly cared.

He  rounded  an  elbow-bend  in  the  stream  and  just  stood  there  for  a  
moment,  looking.  The
dam-builders  were  still  there.  One  of  them  was  indeed  Stuttering  Bill 
 Denbrough.  He  was
kneeling  beside  the  other  boy,  who  was  propped  against  the  
stream-bank  in  a  sitting position.
This  other  kid's  head  was  thrown  so  far  back  that  his  adam's  apple  
stood  out  like  a  triangular
plug.  There  was  dried  blood  around  his  nose,  on  his  chin,  and  
painted  along  his  neck  in  a
couple of streams. He had something white clasped loosely in one hand.

Stuttering  Bill  looked  around  sharply  and  saw  Ben  standing  there.  Ben 
 saw  with  dismay
that  something  was  very  wrong  with  the  boy  propped  up  on  the  bank;  
Denbrough  was
obviously scared to death. He thought miserably: Won't this day ever end?

'I  wonder  if  yuh-yuh-you  could  help  m-m-me,'  Bill  Denbrough  said.  
'H-His  ah-ah-ah-asp-
p-irator is eh-hempty. I think he m-might be — '

His  face  froze,  turned  red.  He  dug  at  the  word,  stuttering  like  a  
machine-gun. Spittle flew
from   his   lips,   and   it   took  almost  thirty  seconds'  worth  of  
'd-d-d-d'   before   Ben   realized
Denbrough was trying to say the other kid might be dying.


C H A P T E R  5

Bill Denbrough Beats the Devil - I

1

Bill  Denbrough  thinks:   I'm  damned  near  space-travelling;  I  might  as  
well  be  inside  a  bullet
shot from a gun.

This thought, although perfectly true, is not one he finds especially 
comfortable. In fact, for
the first hour following the Concorde's takeoff (or perhaps liftoff would be a 
better way to put
it)  from  Heathrow,  he has been coping with a mild case of claustrophobia. 
The airplane is
narrow — unsettlingly so. The meal is just short of exquisite, but the flight 
attendants who
serve  it  must  twist  and  bend  and  squat  to  get  the  job  done;  they  
look  like  a  troupe  of
gymnasts. Watching this strenuous service takes some of the pleasure out of the 
food for Bill,
although his seatmate doesn't seem particularly bothered.

The  seatmate  is  another  drawback.  He's  fat  and  not  particularly  
clean,  it  may  be  Ted
Lapidus cologne on top of his skin, but beneath it Bill detects the 
unmistakable odors of dirt
and sweat. He's not being very particular about his left elbow, either; every 
now and then it
strikes Bill with a soft thud.

His  eyes  are  drawn  again  and  again  to  the  digital  readout  at  the  
front  of  the  cabin.  It
shows how fast this British bullet is going. Now, as the Concorde reaches its 
cruising speed,
it tops out at just over mach 2. Bill takes his pen from his shin pocket and 
uses its tip to tap
buttons on the computer watch Audra gave him last Christmas. If the machometer 
is right —
and Bill has absolutely no reason to think it is not — then they are busting 
along at a speed of
eighteen miles per minute. He is not sure this is anything he really wanted to 
know.

Outside  his window, which is as small and thick as the window in one of the 
old Mercury

space capsules, he can see a sky which is not blue but the twilight purple of 
dusk, although it
is the middle of the day. At the point where the sea and the sky meet, he can 
see  that the
horizon-line is slightly bowed.  I am sitting here,  Bill thinks, a Bloody Mary 
in my hand and a
dirty        fat man's elbow poking into my bicep, observing the curvature of 
the earth.

He smiles a little, thinking that a man who can face something like that 
shouldn't be afraid
of anything. But he is afraid, and not just of flying at eighteen miles a 
minute in this narrow
fragile  shell.  He  can  almost   feel  Derry  rushing  at  him.  And  that  
is  exactly  the  right
expression for it. Eighteen miles a minute or not, the sensation is of being 
perfectly still while
Derry rushes at him like some big carnivore which has lain in wait for a long 
time and has
finally broken from cover. Derry, ah, Derry! Shall we write an ode to Derry? 
The stink of its
mills and its rivers? The dignified quiet of its tree-lined streets? The 
library? The Standpipe?
Bassey Park? Derry Elementary School?

The Barrens?

Lights are going on in his head; big kliegs. It's like he's been sitting in a 
darkened theater
for twenty-seven years, waiting for something to happen, and now it's finally 
begun. The set
being revealed spot by spot and klieg by klieg is not, however, some harmless 
comedy like
Arsenic and Old Lace; to Bill Denbrough it looks more like The Cabinet of Dr 
Caligari.

All  those  stories  I  wrote,   he  thinks  with  a  stupid  kind  of  
amusement.  All those novels.
Derry   is   where   they   all   came   from;   Derry   was   the   
wellspring.   They   came   from   what
happened   that   summer,   and   from   what   happened   to   George   the   
autumn   before.   All   the
interviewers that ever asked me THAT QUESTION . . . I gave them the wrong 
answer.


The fat man's elbow digs into him again, and he spills some of his drink. Bill 
almost says
something, then thinks better of it.

THAT QUESTION, of course, was 'Where do you get your ideas?' It was a question 
Bill
supposed all writers of fiction had to answer — or pretend to answer — at least 
twice a week,
but a fellow like him, who made a living by writing of things which never were 
and never
could be, had to answer it — or pretend to — much more often than that.

'All  writers  have  a  pipeline  which  goes  down  into  the  subconscious,'  
he  told  them,
neglecting  to  mention  that  he  doubted  more  as  each  year  passed  if  
there  even  was  such  a
thing as a subconscious. 'But the man or woman who writes honor stories has a 
pipeline that
goes further, maybe . . . into the sub-subconscious, if you like.'

Elegant answer, that, but one he had never really believed. Subconscious? Well, 
there was
something down there all right, but Bill thought people had made much too big a 
deal out of
a function which was probably the mental equivalent of your eyes watering when 
dust got in
them or breaking wind an hour or so after a big dinner. The second metaphor was 
probably
the  better  of  the  two,  but  you  couldn't  very  well  tell  interviewers  
that  as  far  as  you  were
concerned,  such  things  as  dreams  and  vague  longings  and  sensations  
like  déjà-vu really
came down to nothing more than a bunch of mental farts. But they seemed to need 
something,
all  those  reporters  with  their  notebooks  and  their  little  Japanese  
tape-recorders, and Bill
wanted to help them as much as he could. He knew that writing was a hard job, a 
damned
hard job. There was no need to make theirs harder by telling them, 'My friend, 
you might as
well ask me "Who cut the cheese?" and have done with it.'

He  thought  now:  You  always  knew  they  were  asking  the  wrong  question, 
 even  before

Mike  called;  now  you  also  know  what  the  right  question  was.  Not   
where  do  you  get  your
ideas  but  why  do  you  get  your  ideas.  There  was  a  pipeline,  all  
right,  but  it  wasn't  either  the
Freudian  or  Jungian  version  of  the  subconscious  that  it  came  out  of; 
 no  interior  drain-system
of        the  mind,  no  subterranean  cavern  full  of  Morlocks  waiting  to 
 happen.  There  was  nothing  at
the other end of that pipe but Derry. Just Derry. And —

— and who's that, trip-trapping upon my bridge?

He  sits  bolt  upright  suddenly,  and  this  time  it's  his  elbow  that  
goes  wandering;  it  sinks
deeply into his fat seatmate's side for a moment.

'Watch yourself buddy,' the fat man says. 'Close quarters, you know.'

'You stop whopping me with yours and I'll try to stop wuh-whapping you with 
m-mine.' The
fat man gives him a sour, incredulous what-the-hell-you-talking-about look. 
Bill simply gazes
at him until the fat man looks away, muttering.

Who's there?

Who's trip-trapping over my bridge?

He looks out the window again and thinks: We're beating the devil.

His arms  and  the  nape  of  his  neck  prickle.  He  knocks  back  the  rest  
of  his  drink  in one
swallow. Another of those big lights has gone on.

Silver.  His  bike.  That  was  what  he  had  called  it,  after  the  Lone  
Ranger's  horse.  A  big
Schwinn,  twenty-eight inches tall. 'You'll kill yourself on that, Billy,' his 
father had said, but
with  no  real concern in his tone. He had shown little concern for anything 
since George's
death.  Before,  he  had  been  tough.  Fair,  but  tough.  Since,  you  could  
get  around  him.  He
would make fatherly gestures, go through fatherly motions, but motions and 
gestures were all
they were. It was like he was always listening for George to come back into the 
house.

Bill  had  seen  it  in  the  window  of  the  Bike  and  Cycle  Shoppe  down  
on  Center  Street.  It
leaned gloomily on its kickstand, bigger than the biggest of the others on 
display, dull where
they were shiny, straight in places where the others were curved, bent in 
places where the
others were straight. Propped on its front tire had been a sign:


USED

Make an Offer

What actually happened was that Bill went in and the  owner made him an offer, 
which Bill
took  —  he  wouldn't  have  known  how  to  dicker  with  the  Cycle  Shoppe  
owner  if  his  life
depended on it, and the price  — twenty-four dollars  — the man quoted seemed 
very fair to
Bill;  generous,  even.  He  paid  for  Silver  with  money he had saved up 
over the last seven or
eight  months  —  birthday  money,  Christmas  money,  lawn-mowing  money.  He  
had  been
noticing the bike in the window ever since Thanksgiving. He paid for it and 
wheeled it home
as soon as the snow began to melt for good. It was funny, because he'd never 
thought much
about  owning  a  bike  before  last  year.  The  idea  seemed  to  come  into  
his  mind  all  at  once,
perhaps on one of those endless days after George died. Was murdered.

In the beginning, Bill almost did kill himself. The first ride on his new bike 
ended with Bill
dumping it on purpose to keep from running smack into the board fence at the 
end of Kossuth
Lane (he had not been so afraid of running into the fence as he had been of 
bashing right
through it and falling  sixty feet into the Barrens). He came away from that 
one with a five-
inch gash running between the wrist and elbow of his left arm. Not even a week 
later he had
found himself unable to brake soon enough and had shot through the intersection 
of Witcham
and Jackson at perhaps thirty-five miles an hour, a little kid on a dusty gray 
mastodon of a
bike  (Silver  was  silver  only  by  the  most  energetic  reach  of  a  
willing  imagination),  playing
cards machine-gunning the spokes of the front and back wheels in a steady roar, 
and if a car
had been coming he would have been dead meat. Just like Georgie.

He  got  control  of  Silver  little  by  little  as  the  spring  advanced.  
Neither  of  his  parents
noticed during that time that he was conning death by bicycle. He thought that, 
'after the first
few  days,  they  had  ceased  to  really  see  his  bike  at  all  — to them 
it was just a relic with
chipped paint which leaned against the garage wall on rainy days.

Silver was a lot more than some dusty old relic, though. He didn't look like 
much, but he
went like the wind. Bill's friend  — his only real friend  — was a kid named 
Eddie Kaspbrak,
and Eddie was good with mechanical things. He had shown Bill how to get Silver 
in shape —
which  bolts  to  tighten  and  check  regularly,  where  to  oil  the  
sprockets, how to tighten the
chain, how to put on a bike patch so it would stay if you got a flat.

'You oughtta paint it,' he remembered Eddie saying one day, but Bill didn't 
want to paint
Silver. For reasons he couldn't even explain to himself he wanted the Schwinn 
just the way it
was.  It  looked  like  a  real  bow-wow, the sort of bike a careless kid 
regularly left out on his
lawn in the rain, a bike that would be all squeaks and shudders and slow 
friction. It looked
like a bow-wow but it went like the wind. It would —

'It would beat the devil,' he says aloud, and laughs. His fat seatmate looks at 
him sharply;
the laugh has that howling quality that gave Audra the creeps earlier.

Yes,  it  looked  pretty  shoddy,  with  its  old  paint  and  the  
oldfashioned package  carrier
mounted above the back wheel and the ancient oogah-horn with its black rubber 
bulb — that
horn  was  permanently  welded  to  the  handlebars  with  a  rusty  bolt  the  
size  of  a  baby's  fist.
Pretty shoddy.

But could Silver go? Could he? Christ!

And it was a damned good thing he could, because Silver had saved Bill 
Denbrough's life
in the fourth week of June 1958 — the week after he met Ben Hanscom for the 
first lime, the
week after he and Ben and Eddie built the dam, the week that Ben and Richie 
'Trashmouth'
Tozier and Beverly Marsh showed up in the Barrens after the Saturday matinee. 
Richie had
been riding behind him, on Silver's package carrier, the day Silver had saved 
Bill's life . . . so


he  supposed  Silver  had  saved  Richie's,  too.  And  he  remembered the 
house they had been
running from, all right. He remembered that just fine. That damned house on 
Neibolt Street.

He had raced to beat the devil that day, oh yeah, for sure, don't you just know 
it. Some
devil with eyes as shiny as old deadly coins. Some hairy old devil with a 
mouthful of bloody
teeth. But all that had come later. If Silver had saved Richie's life and his 
own that day, then
perhaps  he  had  saved  Eddie  Kaspbrak's  on  the  day  Bill  and  Eddie  met 
 Ben  by  the  kicked-
apart  remains  of  their  dam  in  the  Barrens.  Henry  Bowers  —  who  
looked  a  little  bit  like
someone  had  run  him  through  a  Disposall  —  had  mashed  Eddie's  nose  
and  then  Eddie's
asthma had come on strong and few aspirator turned up empty. So it had been 
Silver that day
too, Silver to the rescue.

Bill  Denbrough,  who  hasn't  been  on  a  bicycle  in  almost  seventeen  
years,  looks  out  the
window of an airplane that would not have been credited  — or even imagined, 
outside of a
science-fiction magazine  — in the year 1958.  Hi-yo Silver, AWAYYY! he thinks, 
and has to
close his eyes against the sudden needling sting of tears.

What happened to Silver? He can't remember. That pan of the set is still dark; 
that klieg
has yet to be turned on. Perhaps that is just as well. Perhaps that is a mercy.

Hi-yo.

Hi-yo Silver.
Hi-yo Silver.

2

'AWAYYY!'  he  shouted.  The  wind  tore  the  words  back  over  his  shoulder 
 like  a  fluttering
crepe  streamer.  They  came  out  big  and  strong,  those  words,  in  a  
triumphant  roar.  They  were
the only ones that ever did.

He  pedaled  down  Kansas  Street  toward  town,  gaining  speed  slowly  at  
first.  Silver  rolled
once  he  got  going,  but  getting  going  was  a  job  and  a  half.  
Watching  the  gray  bike  pick  up
speed  was  a  little  like  watching  a  big  plane  roll  down  the  runway.  
At  first  you  couldn't
believe  such  a  huge  waddling  gadget  could  ever  actually  leave  the  
earth  —  the  idea  was
absurd.  But  then  you  could  see  its  shadow  beneath  it,  and  before  
you  even  had  time  to
wonder  if  it  was  a  mirage,  the  shadow  was  trailing  out  long behind  
it  and  the  plane  was  up,
cutting its way through the air, as sleek and graceful as a dream in a 
satisfied mind.

Silver was like that.

Bill got a little downhill stretch and began to pedal faster, his legs pumping 
up and down as
he  stood  forward  over  the  bike's  fork.  He  had  learned  very  quickly  
—  after  being  bashed  a
couple of times by that fork in the worst place a boy can be bashed  — to yank 
his underpants
up  as  high  as  he  could  before  mounting  Silver.  Later  that  summer,  
observing  this  process,
Richie would say, Bill does that because he thinks he might like to have some 
kids that live
someday. It seems like a bad idea to me, but hey! they might always take after 
his wife, right?
He    and  Eddie  had  lowered  the  seat  as  far  as  it  would  go,  and it 
now bumped and scraped
against  the  small  of  his  back  as  he  worked  the  pedals.  A  woman  
digging  weeds  in  her  flower-
garden  shaded  her  eyes  to  watch  him  pass.  She  smiled  a  little.  The  
boy  on  the  huge  bike
reminded  her  of  a  monkey  she  had  once  seen  riding  a  unicycle  in  
the  Barnum  &  Bailey
Circus.  He's apt to  kill  himself, though,  she thought, turning back to her 
garden.  That bike is

too big for him. It was none of her problem, though.

3


Bill  had  had  more  sense  than  to  argue  with  the  big  boys  when  they  
broke  out  of  the  bushes,
looking  like  ill-tempered  hunters  on  the  track  of  a  beast  which  had  
already  mauled  one  of
them. Eddie, however, had rashly opened his mouth and Henry Bowers had unloaded 
on him.

Bill  knew  who  they  were,  all  right;  Henry,  Belch, and Victor were just 
about the worst kids
in  Derry  School.  They  had  beaten  up  on  Richie  Tozier,  who  Bill  
sometimes  chummed  with,  a
couple  of  times.  The  way  Bill  looked  at  it,  this  was  partly  
Richie's  own  fault;  he  was  not
known as Trashmouth for nothing.

One  day  in  April  Richie  had  said  something  about  their  collars  as  
the  three  of  them  passed
by  in  the  schoolyard.  The  collars  had  all  been  turned  up,  just  like 
 Vie  Morrow's  in  The
Blackboard   Jungle.   Bill,   who   had   been   sitting   against   the   
building   nearby   and   listlessly
shooting     a  few  marbles,  hadn't  really  caught  all  of  it.  Neither  
did  Henry  and  his  friends  .  .  .
but  they  heard  enough  to  turn  in  Richie's  direction.  Bill  supposed  
Richie  had  meant  to  say
whatever he said in a low voice. The trouble was, Ric hie didn't really have a 
low voice.

'What'd you say, you little four-eyes geek?' Victor Criss enquired.

'I  didn't  say  nothing,'  Richie  said,  and  that  disclaimer  —  along with 
his face, which looked
quite  sensibly  dismayed  and  scared   —  might  have  ended  it.  Except  
that  Richie's  mouth  was
like  a  half-tamed  horse  that  has  a  way  of  bolting  for  absolutely  no 
 reason  at  all.  Now  it
suddenly  added:  'You  ought  to  dig  the  wax  out  of  your  ears,  big  
fella.  Want  some  blasting
powder?'

They  stood  looking  at  him  incredulously  for  a  moment,  and  then  they  
took  after  him.
Stuttering  Bill  had  watched  the  unequal  race  from  its  start  to  its  
preordained  conclusion  from
his  place  against  the  side  of  the  building.  No  sense  getting  
involved;  those  three  galoots
would be just as happy to beat up on two kids for the price of one.

Richie  ran  diagonally  across  the  little-kids'  playyard,  leaping  over  
the  teeter-totters  and
dodging  among  the  swings,  realizing  he  had  run  into  a  blind  alley  
only  when  he  struck  the
chainlink  fence  between  the  playyard  and  the  park  which  abutted  the  
school  grounds.  So  he
tried  to  go  up  the  chainlink,  all  clutching  fingers  and  pointing  
seeking  sneaker-toes,  and  he
was  maybe  two-thirds  of  the  way  to  the  top  when  Henry  and  Victor  
Criss  hauled  him  back
down  again,  Henry  getting  him  by  the  back  of  the  jacket  and  Victor  
grabbing  the  seat  of  his
jeans.  Richie  was  screaming  when  they  peeled  him  off  the  fence.  He  
hit  the  asphalt  on  his
back.  His  glasses  flew  off.  He  reached  for  them  and  Belch  Huggins  
kicked  them  away  and
that was why one of the bows was mended with adhesive tape this summer.

Bill  had  winced  and  walked  around  to  the  front  of  the  building.  He  
had  observed  Mrs
Moran,  one  of  the  fourth-grade  teachers,  already  hurrying  over  to  
break  things  up,  but  he
knew  they  would  get  Richie  hard  before  then,  and  by  the  time  she  
actually  arrived,  Richie
would be crying. Bawl-baby, bawl-baby, lookit-the-baby-bawl.

Bill  had  only  had  minor  problems  with  them.  They  made  fun  of  his  
stutter,  of  course.  An
occasional  random  cruelty  came  with  the  jibes;  one  rainy  day  as  they 
 were  going  to  lunch  in
the  gym,  Belch  Huggins  had  knocked  Bill's  lunchbag  out  of  his  hand  
and  had  stomped  it  flat
with one engineer boot, squishing everything inside.

'Oh,  juh-juh-gee!'  Belch  cried  in  mock  horror,  raising  his  hands  and  
fluttering  them  about
his   face.   'Suh-suh-sorry   about   your   l-l-lunch,  fuh-huh-huck-face!'  
And  he  had  strolled  off
down  the  hall  toward  where  Victor  Criss  was  leaning  against  the  
drinking  fountain  outside
the  boys'-room  door,  just  about  laughing  himself  into  a  hernia.  That  
hadn't  been  so  bad,
though; Bill had cadged half a PB & J off Eddie Kaspbrak, and Richie was happy 
to give him
his  devilled  egg,  one  of  which  his  mother  packed  in  his  lunch  about 
 every  second  day  and
which made him want to puke, he claimed.

But  you  had  to  stay  out  of  their  way,  and  if  you  couldn't  do  that 
 you  had  to  try  and  be
invisible.

Eddie forgot the rules, so they creamed him.


He  hadn't  been  too  bad  until  the  big  boys  went  downstream  and  
splashed  across  to  the
other  side,  even  though  his  nose  was  bleeding  like  a  fountain.  When  
Eddie's  snotrag  was
soaked through, Bill had given him his own and made him put a hand on the nape 
of his neck
and  lean  his  head  back.  Bill  could  remember  his  mother  getting  
Georgie  to  do  that,  because
Georgie sometimes got nosebleeds —

Oh but it hurt to think about George.

It  wasn't  until  the  sound  of  the  big  boys'  buffalolike  progress  
through  the  Barrens  had  died
away  completely,  and  Eddie's  nose-bleed  had  actually  stopped,  that  his 
 asthma  got  bad.  He
started   heaving   for   air,   his   hands   opening   and   then   snapping  
 shut   like   weak   traps,   his
respiration a fluting whistle in his throat.

'Shit!' Eddie gasped. 'Asthma! Gripes!'

He  scrambled  for  his  aspirator  and  finally  got  it  out  of  his  
pocket.  It  looked  almost  like  a
bottle  of  Windex,  the  kind  with  the  sprayer  attachment  on  top.  He  
jammed  it  into  his  mouth
and punched the trigger.

'Better?' Bill asked anxiously.

'No.  It's  empty.'  Eddie  looked  at  Bill  with  panicked  eyes  that  said  
 I'm  caught,  Bill!  I'm
caught!

The  empty  aspirator  rolled  away  from  his  hand.  The  stream  chuckled  
on,  not  caring  in  the
least  that  Eddie  Kaspbrak  could  barely  breathe.  Bill  thought  randomly  
that  the  big  boys  had
been  right  about  one  thing:  it  had  been  a  real  baby  dam.  But  they  
had  been  having  fun,
dammit, and he felt a sudden dull fury that it should have come to this.

Tuh-tuh-take it easy, Eh-Eddie,' he said.

For  the  next  forty  minutes  or  so  Bill  sat  next  to  him,  his  
expectation  that  Eddie's  asthma
attack  would  at  any  moment  let  up  gradually  fading  into  unease.  By  
the  time  Ben  Hanscom
appeared,  the  unease  had  become  real  fear.  It  not  only  wasn't  
letting  up;  it  was  getting  worse.
And   the  Center  Street  Drug,  where  Eddie  got  his  refills,  was  three  
miles  away,  almost.  What
il  he went to get Eddie's stuff and came back to rind Eddie unconscious? 
Unconscious or

(don't shit please don't think that)

or even dead, his mind insisted implacably.

(like Georgie dead like Georgie]

Don't be such an asshole! He's not going to die!

No,  probably  not.  But  what  if  he  came  back  and  found  Eddie  in  a  
comber?  Bill  knew  all
about  combers;  he  had  even  deduced  they  were  named  after  those  great 
 big  waves  guys
surfed on in Hawaii, and that seemed right enough  — after all, what was a 
comber but a wave
that  drowned  your  brain?  On  doctor  shows  like  Ben Casey,   people  were 
 always  going  into
combers, and sometimes they stayed there in spite of all Ben Casey's 
ill-tempered shouting.

So  he  sat  there,  knowing  he  ought  to  go,  he  couldn't  do  Eddie  any  
good  staying  here,  but
not  wanting  to  leave  him  alone.  An  irrational,  superstitious  part  of  
him  felt  sure  Eddie  would
slip  into  a  comber  the  minute  he,  Bill,  turned  his  back.  Then he 
looked upstream and saw Ben
Hanscom  standing  there.  He  knew  who  Ben  was,  of  course;  the  fattest  
kid  in  any  school  has
his       or  her  own  sort  of  unhappy  notoriety.  Ben  was  in  the  other 
 fifth  grade.  Bill  sometimes
saw him at recess, standing by himself  —  usually in a corner   — looking at a 
book and eating
his lunch out of a bag about the size of a laundry sack.

Looking at Ben now, Bill thought he looked even worse than Henry Bowers. It was 
hard to
believe,  but  true.  Bill  could  not  begin  to  imagine  the  cataclysmic  
fight  these  two  must  have
been  in.  Ben's  hair  stood  up  in  wild,  dirt-clotted  spikes.  His  
sweater  or  sweat-shirt  —  it was
hard  to  tell  which  it  had  started  the  day  as  and  it  sure  as  shit  
didn't  matter  now  —  was a
matted  ruin,  smeared  with  a  sicko  mixture  of  blood  and  grass.  His  
pants  were  out  at  the
knees.

He saw Bill looking at him and recoiled a bit, eyes going wary.


'Duh-duh-duh-hon't  g-g-go!'  Bill  cried.  He  put  his  empty  hands  up  in  
the  air,  palms  out,  to
show he was harmless. 'W-W-We need some huh-huh-help.'

Ben  came  closer,  eyes  still  wary.  He  walked  as  if  one  or  both  of  
his  legs  was  killing  him.
'Are they gone? Bowers and those guys?'

'Yuh-Yes,'  Bill  said.  'Listen,  cuh-han  y-y-you  stay  with  my  fruhhend  
while  I  go  get  his
muh-medicine? He's got a-a-a-a — '

'Asthma?'
Bill nodded.

Ben  came  all  the  way  down  to  the  remains  of  the  dam  and  dropped  
painfully  to  one  knee

beside Eddie, who was lying back with his eyes mostly closed and his chest 
heaving.

'Which  one  hit  him?'  Ben  asked  finally.  He  looked  up,  and  Bill  saw  
the  same  frustrated
anger he had been feeling himself on the fat kid's face. 'Was it Henry Bowers?'

Bill nodded.

'It figures. Sure, go on. I'll stay with him.'
Thuh-thuh-hanks.'

'Oh,  don't thank me,' Ben said. 'I'm the reason they landed on you in the 
first place. Go on.

Hurry it up. I have to be home for supper.'

Bill  went  without  saying  anything  else.  It  would  have  been  good  to  
tell  Ben  not  to  take  it  to
heart  —  what  had  happened  hadn't  been  Ben's  fault  any  more  than  it  
had  been  Eddie's  for
stupidly  opening  his  mouth.  Guys  like  Henry  and  his  buddies  were  an  
accident  waiting  to
happen;  the  little  kids'  version  of  floods  or  tornadoes  or  
gallstones.  It  would  have  been  good
to  say  that,  but  he  was  so  tightly  wound  right  now  it  would  have  
taken  him  about  twenty
minutes  or  so,  and  by  then  Eddie  might  have  slipped  into  a  comber  
(that  was  another  thing
Bill  had  learned  from  Drs  Casey  and  Kildare;  you  never  went  into  a  
comber;  you  always
slipped into one).

He  trotted  downstream,  glancing  back  once.  He  saw  Ben  Hanscom  grimly  
collecting  rocks
from  the  edge  of  the  water.  For  a  moment  Bill  couldn't  figure  out  
what  he  was  doing,  and
then he understood. It was an ammo dump. Just in case they came back.

4

The  Barrens  were  no  mystery  to  Bill.  He  had  played  here  a  lot  this 
 spring,  sometimes  with
Richie,  more  frequently  with  Eddie,  sometimes  all  by  himself.  He  had  
by  no  means  explored
the whole area, but he could find his way back to Kansas Street from the 
Kenduskeag with no
trouble,  and  now  did.  He  came  out  at  a  wooden  bridge  where  Kansas  
Street  crossed  one  of
the   little   no-name   streams   that   flowed   out   of   the   Derry   
drainage   system   and   into   the
Kenduskeag  down  below.  Silver  was  stashed  under  this  bridge,  his  
handlebars  tied  to  one  of
the bridge supports with a hank of rope to keep his wheels out of the water.

Bill  untied  the  rope,  stuck  it  in  his  shirt,  and  hauled  Silver  up  
to  the  sidewalk  by  main
force, panting and sweating, losing his balance a couple of times and landing 
on his tail.

But at last it was up. Bill swung his leg over the high fork.

And as always, once he was on Silver he became someone else.

5

'Hi-yo Silver AW A YYY!'

The  words  came  out  deeper  than  his  normal  speaking voice  —  it  was  
almost  the  voice  of
the  man  he  would  become.  Silver  gained  speed  slowly,  the  quickening  
clickety-ciack  of  the


Bicycle  playing  cards  clothespinned  to  the  spokes  marking  the  
increase.  Bill  stood  on  the
pedals,  his  hands  clamped  on  the  bike-grips  with  the  wrists  turned  
up.  He  looked  like  a  man
trying  to  lift  a  stupendously  heavy  barbell.   Cords  stood  out  on  his 
 neck.  Veins  pulsed  in  his
temples.  His  mouth  was  turned  down  in  a  trembling  sneer  of  effort  
as  he  fought  the  familiar
battle against weight and inertia, busting his brains to get Silver moving.

As always, it was worth the effort.

Silver  began  to  roll  along  more  briskly.  Houses  slid  past  smoothly  
instead  of  just  poking
by.  On  his  left,  where  Kansas  Street  crossed  Jackson,  the  unfettered 
Kenduskeag became the
Canal.  Past  the  intersection  Kansas  Street  headed  swiftly  downhill  
toward  Center  and  Main,
Berry's business district.

Streets   crossed   frequently   here   but   they   were   all   stop-signed   
in   Bill's   favor,   and   the
possibility  that  a  driver  might  one  day  blow  by  one  of  those  stop  
signs  and  flatten  him  to  a
bleeding  shadow  on  the  street  had  never  crossed  Bill's  mind.  It  is  
unlikely  he  would  have
changed  his  ways  even  if  it  had.  He  might  have  done  so  either  
earlier  or  later  in  his  life,  but
this  spring  and  early  summer  had  been  a  strange  thundery  time  for  
him.  Ben  would  have  been
astounded  if  someone  were  to  ask  him  if  he  was  lonely;  Bill  would  
have  been  likewise
astounded  if  someone  asked  him  if  he  was  courting  death.  Of  
cuh-cuh-course  n-not!  he would
have  responded  immediately  (and  indignantly),  but  that  did  not  change  
the  fact  that  his  runs
down  Kansas  Street  to  town  had  become  more  and  more  like  banzai  
charges as the weather
warmed.

This  section  of  Kansas  Street  was  known  as  Up-Mile  Hill.  Bill  took  
it  at  full  speed,  bent
over  Silver's  handlebars  to  cut  down  the  wind  resistance,  one  hand  
poised  over  the  cracked
rubber  bulb  of  his  oogah-horn to warn the unwary, his red hair blowing back 
from his head in
a  rippling  wave.  The  click  of  the  playing  cards  had  mounted  to  a  
steady  roar.  The  effortful
sneer  had  become  a  big  goofball  grin.  The  residences  on  the  right  
had  given  way  to  business
buildings  (warehouses  and  meat-packing  plants,  most  of  them)  which  
blurred  by  in  a  scary
but satisfying rush. To his left the Canal was a wink of fire in the corner of 
his eye.

'HI-YO SILVER, AWAYYYY!' he screamed triumphantly.

Silver  flew  over  the  first  curbing,  and  as  they  almost  always  did  
at  that  point,  his  feet  lost
contact  with  the  pedals.  He  was  freewheeling,  now  wholly  in  the  lap  
of  whatever  god  has
been  appointed  the  job  of  protecting  small  boys.  He  swerved  into  the 
 street,  doing  maybe
fifteen miles an hour over the posted speed of twenty-five.

It  was  all  behind  him  now:  his  stutter,  his  dad's  blank  hurt  eyes  
as  he  puttered  around  his
garage  workshop,  the  terrible  sight  of  the  dust  on  the  closed  piano  
cover  upstairs  —  dusty
because  his  mother  didn't  play  anymore.  The  last  time  had  been  at  
George's  funeral,  three
Methodist  hymns.  George  going  out  into  the  rain,  wearing  his  yellow  
slicker,  carrying  the
newspaper  boat  with  its  glaze  of  paraffin;  Mr  Gardener  coming  up  the 
 street  twenty  minutes
later  with  his  body  wrapped  in  a  bloodstained  quilt;  his  mother's  
agonized  shriek.  All  behind
him. He  was  the  Lone  Ranger,  he  was  John  Wayne,  he  was  Bo Diddley,  
he was anybody he
wanted to be and nobody who cried and got scared and wanted his muh-muh-mother.

Silver   flew   and   Stuttering   Bill   Denbrough   flew   with   him;   
their   gantry-like  shadow  fled
behind  them.  They  raced  down  Up-Mile  Hill  together;  the  playing  cards 
 roared.  Bill's  feet
found  the  pedals  again  and  he  began  to  pump,  wanting  to  go  even  
faster,  wanting  to  reach
some  hypothetical  speed  —  not  of  sound  but  of  memory  —  and  crash  
through  the  pain
barrier.

He raced on, bent over his handlebars; he raced to beat the devil.

The  three-way  intersection  of  Kansas,  Center,  and  Main  was  coming  up  
fast.  It  was  a
horror  of  one-way  traffic  and  conflicting  signs  and  stoplights  which  
were  supposed  to  be
timed  but  really  weren't.  The  result,  a  Derry  News  editorial  had  
proclaimed  the  year  before,
was a traffic-rotary conceived in hell.


As  always,  Bill's  eyes  flicked  right  and  left,  fast,  gauging  the  
traffic  flow,  looking  for  the
holes.  If  his  judgment  was  mistaken  —  if  he  stuttered,  you  might  
say  —  he  would  be  badly
hurt or killed.

He  arrowed  into  the  slow-moving  traffic  which  dogged  the  intersection, 
 running  a  red  light
and  fading  to  the  right  to  avoid  a  lumbering  portholed  Buick.  He  
shot  a  bullet  of  a glance
back over his shoulder to make sure the middle lane was empty. He looked 
forward again and
saw  that  in  roughly  five  seconds  he  was  going  to  crash  into  the  
rear  end  of  a  pick-up truck
that  had  stopped  squarely  in  the  middle  of  the  intersection  while  
the  Uncle  Ike  type  behind
the  wheel  craned  his  neck  to  read  all  the  signs  and  make  sure  he  
hadn't  taken  a  wrong  turn
and somehow ended up in Miami Beach.

The   lane   on   Bill's   right   was   full   of   a   Derry-Bangor   
intercity   bus.   He   slipped   in   that
direction  just  the  same  and  shot  the  gap  between  the  stopped  pick-up 
 and  the  bus,  still
moving  at  forty  miles  an  hour.  At  the  last  second  he  snapped  his  
head  hard  to  one  side,  like  a
soldier  doing  an  over-enthusiastic  eyes-right,  to  keep  the  mirror  
mounted  on  the  passenger
side  of  the  pick-up  from  rearranging  his  teeth.  Hot  diesel  from  the  
bus  laced  his  throat  like  a
kick  of  strong  liquor.  He  heard  a  thin  gasping  squeal  as  one  of  
his  bike-grips kissed a line up
the  coach's  aluminum  side.  He  got  just  a  glimpse  of  the  bus driver, 
his face paper-white under
his  peaked  Hudson  Bus  Company  cap.  The  driver  was  shaking  his  fist  
at  Bill  and  shouting
something. Bill doubted it was happy birthday.

Here  was  a  trio  of  old  ladies  crossing  Main  Street  from  the  New  
England  Bank  side to the
Shoeboat  side.  They  heard  the  harsh  burr  of  the  playing  cards  and  
looked  up.  Their  mouths
dropped open as a boy on a huge bike passed within half a foot of them like a 
mirage.

The worst  —  and  the  best  —  of  the  trip  was  behind  him  now.  He  had 
 looked  at  the  very
real  possibility  of  his  own  death  again  and  again  had  found  himself  
able  to  look  away.  The
bus  had  not  crushed  him;  he  had  not  killed  himself  and  the  three  
old  ladies  with  their  Freese's
shopping  bags  and  their  Social  Security  checks;  he  had  not  been  
splattered  across  the  tailgate
of  Uncle  Ike's  old  Dodge  pick-up.  He  was  going  uphill  again  now,  
speed  bleeding  away.
Something  —  oh,  call  it  desire,  that  was  good  enough,  wasn't  it?   — 
 was  bleeding  away  with
it.       All  the  thoughts  and  memories  were  catching  up  —  in  Bill,  
gee,  we  almost  lost  sight  of
you  for  awhile  there,  but  here  we  are  —  rejoining  him,  climbing  up  
his  shirt  and  jumping  into
his  ear  and  whooshing  into  his  brain  like  little  kids  going  down  a  
slide.  He  could  feel  them
settling  into  their  accustomed  places,  their  feverish  bodies  jostling  
each  other.  Gosh!  Wow!
Here we are inside Bill's head again! Let's think about George! Okay! Who wants 
to start?

You think too much, Bill.

No — that wasn't the problem. The problem was, he imagined too much.

He  turned  into  Richard's  Alley  and  came  out  on  Center  Street  a  few  
moments  later,
pedaling  slowly,  feeling  the  sweat  on  his  back  and  in  his  hair.  He  
dismounted  Silver  in  front
of the Center Street Drug Store and went inside.

6

Before  George's  death,  Bill  would  have  gotten  the  salient  points  
across  to  Mr  Keene  by
speaking  to  him.  The  druggist  was  not  exactly  kind  —  or at least Bill 
had an idea he was not

—  but  he  was  patient  enough,  and  he  did  not  tease  or  make  fun.  
But  now  Bill's  stutter was
much  worse,  and  he  really  was  afraid  something  bad  might  happen  to  
Eddie  if  he  didn't  move
fast.

So  when  Mr  Keene  said,  'Hello,  Billy  Denbrough,  can  I  help  you?,'  
Bill  took  a  folder
advertising  vitamins,  turned  it  over,  and  wrote  on  the  back:  Eddie  
Kaspbrak  and  I  were


playing in the Barrens. He's got a bad assmar attack, I mean he can hardly 
breath. Canyon
give me a refill on his asspirador?

He  pushed  this  note  across  the  glass-topped  counter  to  Mr  Keene,  who 
 read  it,  looked  at
Bill's  anxious  blue  eyes,  and  said,  'Of  course.  Wait  right  here,  and 
 don't  be  handling  anything
you shouldn't.'

Bill  shifted  impatiently  from  one  foot  to  the  other  while  Mr  Keene  
was  behind  the  rear
counter.  Although  he  was  back  there  less  than  five  minutes,  it  
seemed  an  age  before  he
returned  with  one  of  Eddie's  plastic  squeeze-bottles.  He  handed  it  
over  to  Bill,  smiled,  and
said, This should take care of the problem.'

'Th-th-th-thanks,' Bill said. 'I don't h-have a-any m-m-muh-muh — '

'That's all right,  son. Mrs Kaspbrak has an account here. I'll just add this 
on. I'm sure she'll
want to thank you for your kindness.'

Bill,   much   relieved,   thanked   Mr   Keene   and   left   quickly.   Mr   
Keene   came   around   the
counter  to  watch  him  go.  He  saw  Bill  toss  the  aspirator  into  his  
bike-basket  and  mount
clumsily. Can he actually ride a bike that big?  Mr Keene wondered. I doubt it. 
I doubt it very
much.  But  the  Denbrough  kid  somehow  got  it  going  without  falling  on  
his  head,  and  pedaled
slowly  away.  The  bike,  which  looked  to  Mr  Keene  like  somebody's  idea 
 of  a  joke,  wobbled
madly from side to side. The aspirator rolled back and forth in the basket.

Mr Keene grinned a little. If Bill had seen that grin, it might have gone a 
good way toward
confirming  his  idea  that  Mr  Keene  was  not  exactly  one  of  the  
world's  champion  nice  guys.  It
was sour, the grin of a man who has found much to wonder about but almost 
nothing to uplift
in the human condition. Yes  —  he  would  add  Eddie's  asthma  medication  to 
 Sonia  Kaspbrak's
bill,  and  as  always  she  would  be  surprised   —  and  suspicious  rather  
than  grateful — at how
cheap  the  medication  was.  Other  drugs  were  so  dear,  she  said.  Mrs  
Kaspbrak,  Mr  Keene
knew, was one of those people who believed nothing cheap could do a person much 
good. He
could  really  have  soaked  her  for  her  son's  HydrOx  Mist,  and  there  
had  been  times  when  he
had been tempted . . . but why should he make himself a party to the woman's 
foolishness? It
wasn't as though he were going to starve.

Cheap?  Oh  my,  yes.  HydrOx  Mist  (Administer  as  needed   typed  neatly  
on  the  gummed

label  he  pasted  on  each  aspirator  bottle)  was  wonderfully  cheap,  but  
even  Mrs  Kaspbrak  was
willing to admit that it controlled her son's asthma quite well in spite of 
that fact. It was cheap
because  it  was  nothing  but  a  combination  of  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  
with  a  dash  of  camphor
added to give the mist a faint medicinal taste.

In other words, Eddie's asthma medicine was tapwater.

7

It  took  Bill  longer  to  get  back,  because  he  was  going  uphill.  In  
several  places  he  had  to
dismount  and  push  Silver.  He  simply  didn't  have  the  musclepower  
necessary  to  keep  the  bike
going up more than mild slopes.

By  the  time  he  had  stashed  his  bike  and  made  his  way  back  to  the  
stream,  it  was  ten  past
four.  All  sorts  of  black  suppositions  were  crossing  his  mind.  The  
Hanscom  kid  would  have
deserted,  leaving  Eddie  to  die.  Or  the  bullies  could  have  backtracked 
 and  beaten  the  shit  out
of    both  of  them.  Or  .  .  .  worst  of  all  .  .  .  the  man  whose  
business  was  murdering  kids  might
have gotten one or both of them. As he had gotten George.

He  knew  there  had  been  a  great  deal  of  gossip  and  speculation  about 
 that.  Bill  had  a  bad
stutter, but he wasn't deaf  — although people sometimes seemed to think he 
must be, since he
spoke  only  when  absolutely  necessary.  Some  people  felt  that  the  
murder  of  his  brother  wasn't
related  at  all  to  the  murders  of  Betty  Ripsom,  Cheryl  Lamonica,  
Matthew  Clements,  and


Veronica  Grogan.  Others  claimed  that  George,  Ripsom,  and  Lamonica  had  
been  killed  by  one
man,  and  the  other  two  were  the  work  of  a  'copy-cat  killer.'  A  
third  school  of  thought  held
that the boys had been killed by one man, the girls by another.

Bill  believed  they  had  all  been  killed  by  the  same  person  .  .  .  
if  it  was  a  person.  He
sometimes  wondered  about  that.  As  he  sometimes  wondered  about  his  
feelings  concerning
Derry this summer. Was it still the aftermath of George's death, the way his 
parents seemed to
ignore  him  now,  so  lost  in  their  grief  over  their  younger  son  that  
they  couldn't  see  the  simple
fact  that  Bill  was  still  alive,  and  might  be  hurting  himself?  Those  
things  combined  with  the
other  murders?  The  voices  that  sometimes  seemed  to  speak  in  his  head 
 now,  whispering  to
him  (and  surely  they  were  not  variations  of  his  own  voice,  for  
these  voices did not stutter   —
they  were  quiet,  but  they  were  sure),  advising  him  to  do  certain  
things  but  not  others?  Was  it
those  things  which  made  Derry  seem  somehow  different  now?  Somehow  
threatening,  with
unexplored  streets  that  did  not  invite  but  seemed  instead  to  yawn  in 
 a  kind  of  ominous
silence? That made some faces look secret and frightened?

He didn't know, but he believed  — as he believed all the murders were the work 
of a single

agency  —   that  Derry  really  had  changed,  and  that  his  brother's  
death  had  signalled  the
beginning  of  that  change.  The  black  suppositions  in  his  head  came  
from  the  lurking  idea  that
anything could happen in Derry now. Anything.

But  when  he  came  around  the  last  bend,  all  looked  cool.  Ben  Hanscom 
 was  still  there,
sitting  beside  Eddie.  Eddie  himself  was  sitting  up  now,  his  hands  
dangling  in  his  lap,  head
bent,  still  wheezing.  The  sun  had  sunk  low  enough  to  project  long  
green  shadows  across  the
stream.

'Boy, that was quick,' Ben said, standing up. 'I didn't expect you for another 
half an hour.'

'I  got  a  f-f-fast  b-bike,' Bill said with some pride. For a moment the two 
of them looked at
each  other  cautiously,  warily.  Then  Ben  smiled  tentatively,  and  Bill  
smiled  back.  The  kid  was
fat,  but  he  seemed  okay.  And  he  had  stayed  put. That must have taken 
some guts, with Henry
and his j.d. friends maybe still wandering around out there someplace.

Bill  winked  at  Eddie,  who  was  looking  at  him  with  dumb  gratitude.  
'H-Here  you  g-go, E-E-
E-Eddie.'  He  tossed  him  the  aspirator.  Eddie  plunged  it  into  his  
open  mouth,  triggered  it,  and
gasped convulsively. Then he leaned back, eyes shut. Ben watched this with 
concern.

'Jeez! He's really got it bad, doesn't he?'
Bill nodded.

'I  was  scared  there  for  awhile,'  Ben  said  in  a  low  voic e.  'I  was  
wonderin  what  to  do  if  he
had  a  convulsion,  or  something.  I  kept  tryin  to  remember  the  stuff  
they  told  us  in  that  Red
Cross assembly we had in April. All I could come up with was put a stick in his 
mouth so he
wouldn't bite his tongue off.'

'I think that's for eh-eh-hepileptics.'
'Oh. Yeah, I guess you're right.'

'He  w-won't  have  a  c-c-convulsion,  anyway,'  Bill  said.  'That  
m-m-medicine  will  f-fix  him

right up. Luh-Luh-Look.'

Eddie's labored breathing had eased. He opened his eyes and looked up at them.
'Thanks, Bill,' he said. 'That one was a real pisswah.'

'I guess it started when they creamed your nose, huh?' Ben asked.

Eddie  laughed  ruefully,  stood  up,  and  stuck  the  aspirator  in  his  
back  pocket.  'Wasn't  even
thinking about my nose. Was thinking about my mom.'

'Yeah?  Really?'  Ben  sounded  surprised,  but  his  hand  went  to  the  rags 
 of  his  sweatshirt  and

began fiddling there nervously.

'She's  gonna  take  one  look  at  the  blood  on  my  shirt  and  have  me  
down  to  the  Mergency
Room at Derry Home in about five seconds.'


'Why?'  Ben  asked.  'It  stopped,  didn't  it?  Gee,  I  remember  this  kid  
I  was  in  kindergarten
with, Scooter Morgan, and he got a bloody nose when he fell off the monkey 
bars. They took
him to the Mergency Room, but only because it kept bleeding.'

'Yeah?' Bill asked, interested. 'Did he d-d-die?'
'No, but he was out of school a week.'

'It  doesn't  matter  if  it  stopped  or  not,'  Eddie  said  gloomily.  
'She'll  take  me  anyway.  She'll

think it's broken and I got pieces of bone sticking in my brain, or something.'

'C-C-Can  you  get  bones  in  your  buh-buh-brain ?' Bill asked. This was 
turning into the most
interesting conversation he'd had in weeks.

'I  don't  know.  If  you  listen  to  my  mother,  you  can  get  anything.' 
Eddie turned to Ben again.
'She  takes  me  down  to  the  Mergency  Room  about  once  or  twice  a  
month.  I  hate  that  place.
There  was  this  orderly  once?  He  told  her  they  oughtta  make  her  pay  
rent.  She  was  really
PO'd.'

'Wow,'  Ben  said.  He  thought  Eddie's  mother  must  be  really  weird.  He  
was  unconscious  of
the  fact  that  now  both  of  his  hands  were  fiddling  in  the  remains  
of  his  sweatshirt.  'Why  don't
you  just  say  no?  Say  something  like  "Hey  Ma,  I  feel  all  right,  I  
just  want  to  stay  home  and
watch Sea Hunt." Like that.'

'Awww,' Eddie said uncomfortably, and said no more.
'You're Ben H-H-H-Hanscom, r-right?' Bill asked.
'Yeah. You're Bill Denbrough.'

'Yuh-Yes. And this is Eh-Eh-Eh-heh-Eh-Eh — '

'Eddie  Kaspbrak,'  Eddie  said.  'I  hate  it  when  you  stutter  my  name,  
Bill.  You  sound  like
Elmer Fudd.'

'Suh-horry.'

'Well,  I'm  pleased  to  meet  you  both,'  Ben  said.  It  came  out  
sounding  prissy  and  a  little
lame.  A  silence  fell  amid  the  three  of  them.  It  was  not  an  
entirely  uncomfortable  silence.  In it
they became friends.

'Why were those guys chasing you?' Eddie asked at last.

'They're a-a-always chuh-hasing s-someone,' Bill said. 'I h-hate those 
fuckers.'

Ben  was  silent  a  moment  —  mostly  in  admiration   —  before  Bill's  use 
 of  what  Ben's
mother  sometimes  called  The  Really  Bad  Word.  Ben  had  never  said  The  
Really  Bad  Word
out   loud   in   his   whole   life,   although   he   had   written   it   
(in   extremely   small   letters)   on   a
telephone pole the Halloween before last.

'Bowers ended up sitting next to me  during the exams,' Ben said at last. 'He 
wanted to copy
off my paper. I wouldn't let him.'

'You must want to die young, kid,' Eddie said admiringly.

Stuttering  Bill  burst  out  laughing.  Ben  looked  at  him  sharply,  
decided  he  wasn't  being
laughed at, exactly (it was hard to say how he knew it, but he did), and 
grinned.

'I  guess  I  must,'  he  said.  'Anyway,  he's  got  to  take  summer-school, 
and he and those other

two guys were laying for me, and that's what happened.'
'Y-You look like t-t-they kuh-hilled you,' Bill said.

'I  fell  down  here  from  Kansas  Street.  Down  the  side  of  the  hill.'  
He  looked  at  Eddie.  'I'll

probably  see  you  in  the  Mergency  Room,  now  that  I  think  about  it.  
When  my  mom  gets  a
look at my clothes, she'll put me there.'

Both  Bill  and  Eddie  burst  out  laughing  this  time,  and  Ben  joined  
them.  It  hurt  his  stomach
to  laugh  but  he  laughed  anyway,  shrilly  and  a  little  hysterically.  
Finally  he  had  to  sit  down  on
the  bank,  and  the  plopping  sound  his  butt  made  when  it  hit  the  
dirt  got  him  going  all  over
again.  He  liked  the  way  his  laughter  sounded  with  theirs.  It  was  a  
sound  he  had  never  heard
before:  not  mingled  laughter  —  he  had  heard  that  lots  of  times   —  
but  mingled  laughter  of
which his own was a part.


He  looked  up  at  Bill  Denbrough, their eyes met, and that was all it took 
to get both of them
laughing again.

Bill  hitched  up  his  pants,  flipped  up  the  collar  of  his  shirt,  and  
began  to  slouch  around  in  a
kind  of  moody,  hoody  strut.  His  voice  dropped  down  low  and  he  said, 
 'I'm  gonna killya, kid.
Don't gimme no crap. I'm dumb but I'm big. I can crack walnuts with my 
forehead. I can piss
vinegar  and  shit  cement.  My  name's  Honeybunch  Bowers  and  I'm  the  
boss  prick  round  dese-
yere Derry parts.'

Eddie  had  collapsed  to  the  stream-bank  now  and  was  rolling  around,  
clutching his stomach
and  howling.  Ben  was  doubled  up,  head  between  his  knees,  tears  
spouting  from  his  eyes,  snot
hanging from his nose in long white runners, laughing like a hyena.

Bill sat down with them, and little by little the three of them quieted.

'There's  one  really  good  thing  about  it,'  Eddie  said  presently.  'If  
Bowers  is  in  summer
school, we won't see him much down here.'

'You play in the Barrens a lot?' Ben asked. It was an idea that never would 
have crossed his

own  mind  in  a  thousand  years  —  not  with  the  reputation  the  Barrens  
had  — but now that he
was down here, it didn't seem bad at all. In fact, this stretch of the low bank 
was very pleasant
as the afternoon made its slow way toward dusk.

'S-S-Sure.  It's  n-neat.  M-Mostly  n-nobody  b-buh-bothers  u-us  down  
h-here.  We  guh-guh-
hoof   off   a   lot.   B-B-Bowers  and  those  uh-other  g-guys   don't   come 
  d-down  here  eh-eh-
anyway.'

'You and Eddie?'

'Ruh-Ruh-Ruh  —  '  Bill  shook  his  head.  His  face  knotted  up  like  a  
wet  dishrag  when  he
stuttered,  Ben  noticed,  and  suddenly  an  odd  thought  occurred  to  him:  
Bill  hadn't  stuttered  at
all  when  he  was  mocking  the  way  Henry  Bowers  talked.  'Richie!'  Bill 
exclaimed now, paused
a  moment,  and  then  went  on.  'Richie  T-Tozier usually  c-comes  down,  
too.  But  h-him and his
d-dad were going to clean out their ah-ah-ah — '

'Attic,' Eddie translated, and tossed a stone into the water. Plonk.

'Yeah,  I  know  him,'  Ben  said.  'You  guys  come  down  here  a  lot,  
huh?'  The  idea  fascinated
him — and made him feel a stupid sort of longing as well.

'Puh-Puh-Pretty  much,'  Bill  said.  'Wuh-Why   d-don't  you  c-c-come  back  
down  tuh-huh-
morrow? M-Me and E-E-Eddie were tub-trying to make a duh-duh-ham.'

Ben  could  say  nothing.  He  was  astounded  not  only  by  the  offer  but  
by  the  simple  and
unstudied casualness with which it had come.

'Maybe  we  ought  to  do  something  else,'  Eddie  said.  'The  dam  wasn't  
working  so  hot

anyway.'

Ben  got  up  and  walked  down  to  the  stream,  brushing  the  dirt  from  
his  huge hams. There
were  still  matted  piles  of  small  branches  at  either  side  of  the  
stream,  but  anything  else  they'd
put together had washed away.

'You ought to have some boards,' Ben said. 'Get boards and put em in a row . . 
. facing each
other . . . like the bread of a sandwich.'

Bill  and  Eddie  were  looking  at  him,  puzzled.  Ben  dropped  to  one  
knee.  'Look,'  he  said.
'Boards  here  and  here.  You  stick  em  in  the  streambed  facing  each  
other.  Okay?  Then,  before

the water can wash them away, you fill up the space between them with rocks and 
sand — '
'Wuh-Wuh-We,' Bill said.

'Huh?'

'Wuh-We do it.'

'Oh,'  Ben  said,  feeling  (and  looking,  he  was  sure)  extremely  stupid.  
But  he  didn't  care  if  he
looked  stupid,  because  he  suddenly  felt  very  happy.  He  couldn't even 
remember the last time
he  felt  this  happy.  'Yeah.  We.  Anyway, if you  —  we  —  fill  up  the  
space  in  between  with
rocks  and  stuff,  it'll  stay.  The  upstream  board  will  lean  back  
against  the  rocks  and  dirt  as  the


water  piles  up.  The  second  board  would  tilt  back  and  wash  away  
after  awhile,  I  guess,  but  if
we had a third board . . . well, look.'

He  drew  in  the  dirt  with  a  stick.  Bill  and  Eddie  Kaspbrak  leaned  
over  and  studied  this  little
drawing with sober interest:

'You ever built a dam before?' Eddie asked. His tone was respectful, almost 
awed.
'Nope.'

'Then h-h-how do you know this'll w-w-work?'

Ben looked at Bill, puzzled. 'Sure it will,' he said. 'Why wouldn't it?'

'But  h-how  do  you  nuh-nuh-know?'  Bill  asked.  Ben  recognize d the tone 
of the question as
one not of sarcastic disbelief but honest interest. 'H-How can y-you tell?'

'I  just  know,'  Ben  said.  He  looked  down  at  his  drawing  in  the  dirt 
 again  as  if  to  confirm  it
to  himself.  He  had  never  seen  a  cofferdam  in  his  life,  either  in  
diagram or in fact, and had no
idea that he had just drawn a pretty fair representation of one.

'O-Okay,' Bill said, and clapped Ben on the back. 'S-See you tuh-huh-morrow.'
'What time?'

'M-Me and Eh-Eddie'll g-get here by eh-eh-eight-th-thirty or so — '

'If me and my mom aren't still waiting at the Mergency Room,' Eddie said, and 
sighed.

'I'll  bring  some  boards,'  Ben  said.  'This  old  guy  on  the  next  
block's  got  a  bunch  of  'em.  I'll
hawk a few.'

'Bring   some   supplies,   too,'  Eddie  said.  'Stuff  to  eat.  You  know,  
like  san-widges,  Ring-

Dings, stuff like that.'
'Okay.'

'You g-g-got any guh-guh-guns?'

'I got my Daisy  air  rifle,' Ben said. 'My mom gave it to me for Christmas, 
but she gets mad
if I shoot it off in the house.'

'B-Bring it d-d-down,' Bill said. 'We'll play g-guns, maybe.'

'Okay,' Ben said happily. 'Listen, I got to split for home, you guys.'
'Uh-Us, too,' Bill said.

The   three   of   them   left   the   Barrens   together.   Ben   helped   
Bill   push   Silver   up   the
embankment.  Eddie  trailed  behind  them,  wheezing  again  and  looking  
unhappily  at  his  blood-
spotted shirt.

Bill  said  goodbye  and  then  pedaled  off,  shouting  'Hi-yo Silver,  
AWAYYY!' at the top of his
lungs.

'That's a gigantic bike,' Ben said.

'Bet  your  fur,'  Eddie  said.  He  had  taken  another  gulp  from  his  
aspirator  and  was  breathing
normally  again.  'He  rides  me  double  sometimes  on  the  back.  Goes  so  
fast  it  just  about  scares
the   crap  outta  me.  He's  a  good  man,  Bill  is.'  He  said  this  last  
in  an  offhand way, but his eyes
said  something  more  emphatic.  They  were  worshipful.  'You  know  about  
what  happened  to
his brother, don't you?'

'No — what about him?'

'Got  killed  last  fail.  Some  guy  killed  him.  Pulled  one  of  his  arms  
right  off,  just  like  pulling
a wing off n a fly.'

'Jeezum-crow!'


'Bill, he used to only stutter a little. Now it's really bad. Did you notice 
that he stutters?'
'Well . . . a little.'

'But his brains don't stutter — get what I mean?'
'Yeah.'

'Anyway, I just  told you because if you want Bill to be your friend, it's 
better not to talk to
him about his little brother. Don't ask him questions or anythin. He's all 
frigged up about it.'

'Man,  I  would  be,  too,'  Ben  said.  He  remembered  now,  vaguely,  about  
the  little kid who
had  been  killed  the  previous  fall.  He  wondered  if  his  mother  had  
been thinking about George
Denbrough  when  she  gave  him  the  watch  he  now  wore,  or  only  about  
the  more  recent
killings. 'Did it happen right after the big flood?'

'Yeah.'

They  had  reached  the  corner  of  Kansas  and  Jackson,  where  they  would  
have  to  split  up.
Kids  ran  here  and  there,  playing  tag  and  throwing  baseballs.  One  
dorky  little  kid  in  big  blue
shorts  went  trotting  self-importantly  past  Ben  and  Eddie,  wearing  a  
Davy  Crockett  coonskin
backward  so  that  the  tail  hung  down  between  his  eyes.  He  was  
rolling  a  Hula  Hoop  and
yelling 'Hoop-tag, you guys! Hoop-tag, wanna?'

The two bigger boys looked after him, amused, and then Eddie said: 'Well, I 
gotta go.'
'Wait a sec,' Ben said. 'I got an idea, if you really don't want to go to the 
Mergency Room.'
'Oh yeah?' Eddie looked at Ben, doubtful but wanting to hope.

'You got a nickel?'

'I got a dime. So what?'

Ben  eyed  the  drying  maroon  splotches  on  Eddie's  shirt.  'Stop  at  the  
store  and  get  a
chocolate  milk.  Pour  about  half  of  it  on  your  shirt.  Then  when  you  
get  home  tell  your  mama
you spilled all of it.'

Eddie's  eyes  brightened.  In  the  four  years  since  his  dad  had  died,  
his  mother's  eyesight  had
worsened  considerably.  For  reasons  of  vanity  (and  because  she  didn't  
know  how  to  drive  a
car),  she  refused  to  see  an  optometrist  and  get  glasses.  Dried  
bloodstains  and  chocolate  milk
stains looked about the same. Maybe . . .

'That might work,' he said.

'Just don't tell her it was my idea if she finds out.'
'I won't,' Eddie said. 'Seeya later, alligator.'
'Okay.'

'No,'   Eddie   said   patiently.   'When   I   say   that   you're   supposed  
 to   say,   "After   awhile,
crocodile."'

'Oh. After awhile, crocodile.'
'You got it.' Eddie smiled.

'You know something?' Ben said. 'You guys are really cool.'

Eddie  looked  more  than  embarrassed;  he  looked  almost  nervous.  'Bill  
is,'  he  said,  and
started off.

Ben  watched  him  go  down  Jackson  Street,  and  then  turned  toward home. 
Three blocks up
the  street  he  saw  three  all-too-familiar  figures  standing  at  the  bus  
stop  on  the  corner  of
Jackson  and  Main.  They  were  mostly  turned  away  from  Ben,  which  was  
damned  lucky  for
him.   He   ducked   behind   a   hedge,   his   heart   beating   hard.   Five 
 minutes  later  the  Derry-
Newport-Haven  interurban  bus  pulled  up.  Henry  and  his  friends  pitched  
their  butts  into  the
street and swung aboard.

Ben waited until the bus was out of sight and then hurried home.

8


That night a terrible thing happened to Bill Denbrough. It happened for the 
second time.

His  mom  and  dad  were  downstairs  watching  TV,  not  talking  much,  
sitting  at  either  end  of
the  couch  like  bookends.  There  had  been  a  time  when  the  TV  room  
opening  off  the  kitchen
would  have  been  full  of  talk  and  laughter,  sometimes  so  much  of  
both  you  couldn't  hear  the
TV  at  all.  'Shut  up,  Georgie!'  Bill  would  roar.  'Stop  hogging  all  
the  popcorn  and  I  will,'
George  would  return.  'Ma,  make  Bill  give  me  the  popcorn.'  'Bill,  
give  him  the  popcorn.
George, don't  call me Ma. Ma's a sound a sheep makes.' Or his dad would tell a 
joke and they
would  all  laugh,  even  Mom.  George  didn't  always  get  the  jokes,  Bill  
knew,  but  he  laughed
because everyone else was laughing.

In  those  days  his  mom  and  dad  had  also  been  bookends on the couch, 
but he and George
had  been  the  books.  Bill  had  tried  to  be  a  book  between  them  while 
 they  were  watching  TV
since  George's  death,  but  it  was  cold  work.  They  sent  the  cold  out  
from  both  directions  and
Bill's  defroster  was  simply  not  big  enough  to  cope  with  it.  He  had  
to  leave  because  that  kind
of cold always froze his cheeks and made his eyes water.

'W-Want to h-hear a joke I heard today in s-s-school?' he had tried once, some 
months ago.

Silence  from  them.  On  television  a  criminal  was  begging  his  brother,  
who  was  a  priest,  to
hide him.

Bill's  dad  glanced  up  from  the  True  he  was  looking  at  and  glanced  
at  Bill  with  mild
surprise.  Then  he  looked  back  down  at  the  magazine  again.  There  was  
a  picture  of  a  hunter
sprawled  in  a  snowbank  and  staring  up  at  a  huge  snarling  polar  
bear.  'Mauled  by  the  Killer
from  the  White  Wastes'  was  the  name  of  the  article.  Bill  had  
thought,  I  know  where  there's
some white wastes — right between my dad and mom on this couch.

His mother had never looked up at all.

'It's  about  h-how  many  F-F-Frenchmen  it  takes  to  sc-c-herew  in  a  
luhhh-hightbulb,'  Bill
plunged  ahead.  He  felt  a  fine  mist  of  sweat  spring  out  upon  his  
forehead,  as  it  sometimes  did
in  school  when  he  knew  the  teacher  had  ignored  him  as  long  as  she  
safely  could  and  must
soon call on him. His voice was too loud, but he couldn't seem to lower it. The 
words echoed
in his head like crazy chimes, echoing, jamming up, spilling out again.

'D-D-Do you know h-h-how muh-muh-many?'

'One  to  hold  the bulb and four to turn the house,' Zack Denbrough said 
absently, and turned
the page of his magazine.

'Did  you  say  something,  dear?'  his  mother  asked,  and  on  Four Star 
Playhouse  the brother
who  was  a  priest  told  the  brother  who  was  a  hoodlum  to  turn  
himself  in  and  pray  for
forgiveness.

Bill sat there, sweating but cold  —  so  cold.  It  was  cold  because  he  
wasn't  really  the only
book  between  those  two  ends;  Georgie  was  still  there,  only  now  it  
was  a  Georgie  he  couldn't
see,  a  Georgie  who  never  demanded  the  popcorn  or  hollered  that  Bill  
was  pinching.  This  new
version   of   George   never   cut   up   dickens.   It   was   a   one-armed  
Georgie  who  was  palely,
thoughtfully  silent  in  the  Motorola's  shadowy  white -and-blue  glow,  and 
 perhaps  it  was  not
from  his  parents  but  from  George  that  the  big  chill  was  really  
coming;  perhaps  it  was  George
who  was  the  real  killer  from  the  white  wastes.  Finally  Bill  had  
fled  from  that  cold,  invisible
brother and into his room, where he lay face down on his bed and cried into his 
pillow.

George's  room  was  just  as  it  had  been  on  the  day  he  died.  Zack  
had  put  a  bunch  of
George's  toys  into  a  canon  one  day  about  two  weeks  after  he  was  
buried,  meaning  them  for
the  Goodwill  or  the  Salvation  Army  or  someplace  like  that,  Bill  
supposed.  Sharon  Denbrough
had spotted him coming out with the box in his arms and her hands had flown to 
her head like
startled  white  birds  and  plunged  themselves  deep  into  her  hair  where  
they  locked  themselves
into  pulling  fists.  Bill  had  seen  this  and  had  fallen  against  the  
wall,  the  strength  suddenly
running  out  of  his  legs.  His  mother  looked  as  mad  as  Elsa  
Lanchester  in  The  Bride  of
Frankenstein.


'Don't you DARE take his things!' she had screeched.

Zack  flinched  and  then  took  the  box  of  toys  back  into  George's  room 
without  a  word.  He
even  put  them  back  in  exactly  the  same  places  from  which  he  had  
taken  them.  Bill  came  in
and  saw  his  father  kneeling  by  George's  bed  (which  his  mother  still  
changed,  although  only
once  a  week  now  instead  of  twice)  with  his  head  on  his  hairy 
muscular forearms. Bill saw his
father  was  crying,  and  this  increased  his  terror.  A  frightening  
possibility  suddenly  occurred  to
him:  maybe  sometimes  things  didn't  just  go  wrong  and  then  stop;  
maybe  sometimes  they  just
kept going wronger and wronger until everything was totally fucked up.

'D-Duh-Dad — '

'Go  on,  Bill,'  his  father  said.  His  voice  was  muffled  and  shaking.  
His  back  went  up  and
down. Bill badly wanted to touch his father's back, to see  if  perhaps his 
hand might be able to
still that restless heaving. He did not quite dare. 'Go on, buzz off.'

He  left  and  went  creeping  along  the  upstairs  hall,  hearing  his  
mother  doing  her  own  crying
down  in  the  kitchen.  The  sound  was  shrill  and  helpless.  Bill  
thought,  Why  are  they  crying  so
far apart? and then he shoved the thought away.

9

On  the  first  night  of  summer  vacation  Bill  went  into  Georgie's  room. 
 His  heart  was  beating
heavily  in  his  chest,  and  his  legs  felt  stiff  and  awkward  with  
tension.  He  came  to  George's
room   often,   but   that   didn't  mean  he  liked  it  in   here.  The  room 
 was  so  full  of  George's
presence  that  it  felt  haunted.  He  came  in  and  couldn't  help  thinking 
 that  the  closet  door  might
creak  open  at  any  moment  and  there  would  be  Georgie  among  the  
shirts  and  pants  still  neatly
hung  in  there,  a  Georgie  dressed  in  a  rainslicker  covered  with  red  
splotches  and  streaks,  a
rainslicker  with  one  dangling  yellow  arm.  George's  eyes  would  be  
blank  and  terrible,  the  eyes
of           a  zombie  in  a  horror  movie.  When  he  came  out  of  the  
closet  his  galoshes  would make
squishy sounds as he walked across the room toward where Bill sat on his bed, a 
frozen block
of terror —

If  the  power  had  gone  out  some  evening  while  he  sat  here  on  
George's  bed,  looking  at  the
pictures  on  George's  wall  or  the  models  on  top  of George's dresser, he 
felt sure a heart attack,
probably  fatal,  would  ensue  in  the  next  ten  seconds  or  so.  But  he  
went  anyway.  Warring  with
his  terror  of  George -the-ghost  was  a  mute  and  grasping  need  — a 
hunger  — to somehow get
over  George's  death  and  find  a  decent  way  to  go  on.  Not  to  forget  
George  but  somehow  to
find  a  way  to  make  him  not  so  fucking  gruesome.  He  understood  that  
his  parents  were  not
succeeding  very  well  with  that,  and  if  he  was  going  to  do  it  for  
himself,  he  would  have  to  do
it by himself.

Nor  was  it  just  for  himself  that  he  came;  he  came  for  Georgie  as  
well.  He  had  loved
George,  and  for  brothers  they  had  gotten  along  pretty  well.  Oh,  they 
 had  their  pissy  moments

—  Bill  giving  George  a  good  old  Indian  rope-burn,  George  tattling  on 
 Bill  when  Bill  snuck
downstairs  after  lights-out  and  ate  the  rest  of  the  lemon-cream 
frosting  —  but mostly they got
along.  Bad  enough  that  George  should  be  dead.  For  him  to  turn  
George  into  some  kind  of
horror-monster . . . that was even worse.

He  missed  the  little  kid,  that  was  the  truth.  Missed  his  voice,  his 
 laughter   —  missed  the
way  George's  eyes  sometimes  tipped  confidently  up  to  his  own,  sure  
that  Bill  would  have
whatever  answers  were  required.  And  one  surpassingly  odd  thing:  there  
were  times  when  he
felt  he  loved  George  best  in  his  fear,  because  even  in  his  fear   — 
 his  uneasy  feelings  that  a
zombie-George  might  be  lurking  in  the  closet  or  under  the  bed   —  he 
 could  remember  loving
George  better  in  here,  and  George  loving  him.  In  his  effort  to  
reconcile  these two emotions  —
his love and his terror — Bill felt that he was closest to finding where final 
acceptance lay.


These  were  not  things  of  which  he  could  have  spoken;  to  his  mind  
the  ideas  were  nothing
but  an  incoherent  jumble.  But  his  warm  and  desiring  heart  understood, 
 and  that  was  all  that
mattered.

Sometimes he looked through George's books, sometimes he sifted through 
George's toys.
He hadn't looked in George's photograph album since last December.

Now,  on  the  night  after  meeting  Ben  Hanscom,  Bill  opened  the  door  
of  George's  closet

(steeling   himself   as   always   to   meet   the   sight   of   Georgie   
himself,   standing   in   his   bloody
slicker  amid  the  hanging  clothes,  expecting  as  always  to  see  one  
pallid,  fish-fingered hand
come pistoning out of the dark to grip his arm) and took the album down from 
the top shelf.

MY  PHOTOGRAPHS,  the  gold  script  on  the  front  read.  Below,  
Scotch-taped  on (the tape was
now  slightly  yellow  and  peeling),  the  carefully  printed  words  GEORGE  
ELMER  DENBROUGH,
AGE  6.  Bill  took  it  back  to  the  bed  Georgie  had  slept  in,  his  
heart  beating  heavier  than  ever.
He  couldn't  tell  what  had  made  him  get  the  photograph  album  down  
again.  After  what  had
happened in December . . .

A second look, that's all. Just to convince yourself that it wasn't real the 
first time. That the
first time was just your head playing a trick on itself.

Well, it was an idea, anyway.

It  might  even  be  true.  But  Bill  suspected  it  was  just  the  album  
itself.  It  held  a  certain  mad
fascination for him. What he had seen, or what he thought he had seen —

He  opened  the  album  now.  It  was  filled  with  pictures  George  had  
gotten  his  mother,  father,
aunts, and uncles to give him. George didn't care if they were pictures of 
people and places he
knew  or  not;  it  was  the  idea  of  photography  itself  which  fascinated  
him.  When  he  had  been
unsuccessful  at  pestering  anyone  into  giving  him  new  photos  to  mount  
he  would  sit  cross-
legged     on  his  bed  where  Bill  was  sitting  now  and  look  at  the  
old  ones,  turning  the  pages
carefully,  studying  the  black-and-white  Kodaks.  Here  was  their  mother  
when  she  was  young
and  impossibly  gorgeous;  here  their  father,  no  more  than  eighteen,  
one  of  a  trio  of  smiling
rifle-toting  young  men  standing  over  the  open-eyed  corpse  of  a  deer;  
Uncle  Hoyt  standing on
some  rocks  and  holding  up  a  pickerel;  Aunt  Fortuna,  at  the  Derry  
Agricultural  Fair,  kneeling
proudly  beside  a  basket  of  tomatoes  she  had  raised;  an  old  Buick  
automobile;  a  church;  a
house;  a  road  that  went  from  somewhere  to  somewhere.  All  these   
pictures, snapped by lost
somebodies for lost reasons, locked up here in a dead boy's album of 
photographs.

Here  Bill  saw  himself  at  three,  propped  up  in  a  hospital  bed  with  
a  turban  of  bandages
covering  his  hair.  Bandages  went  down  his  cheeks  and  under  his  
fractured  jaw.  He  had  been
struck  by  a  car  in  the  parking  lot  of  the  A&P  on  Center  Street.  
He  remembered  very  little  of
his  hospital  stay,  only  that  they  had  given  him  ice-cream  milk  
shakes  through  a  straw  and  his
head had ached dreadfully for three days.

Here  was  the  whole  family  on  the  lawn  of  the  house,  Bill  standing  
by  his  mother  and
holding her hand, and George, only a baby, sleeping in Zack's arms. And here —

It  wasn't  the  end  of  the  book,  but  it  was  the  last  page  that  
mattered,  because the following

ones  were  all  blank.  The  final  picture  was  George's  school  picture,  
taken  in  October  of  last
year,  less  than  ten  days  before  he  died.  In  it  George  was  wearing  
a  crew-neck  shirt.  His  fly-
away  hair  was  slicked  down  with  water.  He  was  grinning,  revealing  
two  empty  slots  in  which
new  teeth  would  never  grow  — unless they keep on growing after you die,  
Bill thought, and
shuddered.

He looked at the picture fixedly for some time and was about to close the book 
when what
had happened in December happened again.

George's  eyes  rolled  in  the  picture.  They  turned  up  to  meet  Bill's  
own.  George's  artificial
say-cheese  smile  turned  into  a  horrid  leer.  His  right  eye  drooped  
closed  in  a  wink: See you
soon, Bill. In my closet. Maybe tonight.

Bill threw the book across the room. He clapped his hands over his mouth.


The  book  struck  the  wall  and  fell  to  the  floor,  open.  The  pages  
turned,  although  there  was
no  draft.  The  book  opened  itself  to  that  awful  picture  again,  the  
picture  which  said   SCHOOL
FRIENDS 1957-58 beneath it.

Blood began to flow from the picture.

Bill  sat  frozen,  his  tongue  a  swelling  choking  lump  in  his  mouth,  
his  skin  crawling,  his  hair
lifting.   He   wanted   to   scream   but   the   tiny   whimpering   sounds   
crawling   out   of   his   throat
seemed to be the best he could manage.

The blood flowed across the page and began to drip onto the floor.
Bill fled the room, slammjng the door behind him.


C H A P T E R  6

One of the Missing:

A Tale from the Summer of '58

1

They  weren't  all  found.  No;  they  weren't  all  found.  And  from  time  
to  time  wrong  assumptions
were made.

2

From the Derry News, June 21st, 1958 (page 1):

MISSING BOY PROMPTS NEW FEARS

Edward  L.  Corcoran,  of  73  Charter  Street,  Derry,  was  reported  missing 
 last  night  by  his
mother,  Monica  Macklin,  and  his  stepfather,  Richard  P.  Macklin.  The  
Corcoran  boy  is  ten.
His  disappearance  has  prompted  new  fears  that  Derry's  young  people  
are  being  stalked  by
a killer.

Mrs  Macklin  said  the  boy  had  been  missing  since  June  19th,  when  he  
 failed  to  return
home from school after the last day of classes before summer vacation.

When  asked  why  they  had  delayed  over  twenty-four  hours  before  
reporting  their  son's
absence,   Mr   and   Mrs   Macklin   refused   comment.   Police   Chief   
Richard   Borton   also
declined  comment,  but  a  Police  Department  source  told  the  News  that  
the  Corcoran  boy's
relationship  with  his  stepfather  was  not  a  good  one,  and  that  he  
had  spent  nights  out  of  the
house  before.  The  source  speculated  that  the  boy's  final  grades  may  
have  playe d a part in
the   boy's   failure   to   turn   up.   Derry   School   Superintendent   
Harold   Metcalf   declined
comment on the Corcoran boy's grades, pointing out they are not a matter of 
public record.

'I  hope  the  disappearance  of  this  boy  will  not  cause  unnecessary  
fears,'  Chief  Borton

said  last  night.  The  mood  of  the  community  is  understandably  uneasy,  
but  I  want  to
emphasize  that  we  log  thirty  to  fifty  missing-persons  reports  on  
minors  each  and  every
year.  Most  turn  up  alive  and  well  within  a  week  of  the  initial  
report. This will be the case
with Edward Corcoran, God willing.'

Borton   also   reiterated   his   conviction   that   the   murders   of   
George   Denbrough,   Betty
Ripsom,  Cheryl  Lamonica,  Matthew  Clements,  and  Veronica  Grogan  were  
not  the  work  of
one  person.  'There  are  essential  differences  in  each  crime,'  Borton  
said,  but  declined  to
elaborate.  He  said  that  local  police,  working  in  close  co-operation  
with  the  Maine  State
Attorney  General's  office,  are  still  following  up  a  number  of  leads.  
Asked  in  a  telephone

interview  al st  night  how  good  these  leads  are,  Chief  Borton  replied: 
 'Very  good.'  Asked  if

an arrest in any of the crimes was expected soon, Borton declined comment.

From the Derry News, June 22nd, 1958 (page 1):

COURT ORDERS SURPRISE EXHUMATION


In  a  bizarre  new  twist  to  the  disappearance  of  Edward  Corcoran,  
Derry  District  Court
Judge  Erhardt  K.  Moulton  ordered  the  exhumation  of  Corcoran's  younger  
brother,  Dorsey,
late  yesterday.  The  court  order  followed  a  joint  request  from  the  
County  Attorney  and  the
County Medic al Examiner.

Dorsey  Corcoran,  who  also  lived  with  his  mother  and  stepfather  at  73 
 Charter  Street,
died  of  what  were  reported  to  be  accidental  causes  in  May  of  1957.  
The  boy  was  brought
into   the   Derry   Home   Hospital   suffering   from   multiple   fractures, 
  inc luding   a   fractured
skull.  Richard  P.  Macklin,  the  boy's  stepfather,  was  the  admitting  
person.  He  stated  that
Dorsey  Corcoran  had  been  playing  on  a  stepladder  in  the  garage  and  
had  apparently  fallen
from the top. The boy died without recovering consciousness three days later.

Edward Corcoran, ten, was reported missing late Wednesday. Asked if either Mr 
or Mrs
Macklin   was   under   suspicion   in   either   the   younger   boy's   death 
  or   the   older   boy's
disappearance, Chief Richard Borton declined comment.

From the Derry News, June 24th, 1958 (page 1):

MACKLIN ARRESTED IN BEATING DEATH

Under Suspicion in Unsolved Disappearance

Chief  Richard  Borton  of  the  Derry  Police  called  a  news  conference  
yesterday  to  announce
that  Richard  P.  Macklin,  of  73  Charter  Street,  had  been  arrested  and 
 charged  with  the
murder  of  his  stepson,  Dorsey  Corcoran.  The  Corcoran  boy  died  in  
Derry  Home  Hospital
of  reported  'accidental  causes'  on  May  31st  of  last  year.  'The  
medical  examiner's  report
shows  that  the  boy  was  badly  beaten,'  Borton  said.  Although Macklin 
claimed the boy had
fallen  from  a  stepladder  while  playing  in  the  garage,  Borton  said  
the  County  Medical
Examiner's  report  showed  that  Dorsey  Corcoran  was  severely  beaten  with 
 some  blunt
instrument.   When   asked   what   sort   of   instrument,   Borton   said:   
'It   might   have   been   a
hammer.  Right  now  the  important  thing  is  the  medical  examiner's  
conclusion  that  this  boy
was  struck  repeated  blows  with  some  object  hard  enough  to  break  his  
bones.  The  wounds,
particularly  those  in  the  skull,  are  not  at  all  consistent  with  
those  which  might  be  incurred
in        a fall. Dorsey Corcoran was beaten within an inch of his life and 
then dumped off at the
Home Hospital emergency room to die.'

Asked  if  the  doctors  who  treated  the  Corcoran  boy  might  have  been  
derelict  ni  their

duty  when  it  came  to  reporting  either  an  incidence  of  child  abuse  
or  the  actual  cause  of
death,  Borton  said,  'They  will  have  serious  questions  to  answer  when  
Mr  Macklin  comes
to trial.'

Asked   for   an   opinion   on   how   these   developments   might   bear   
on   the   recent
disappearance  of  Dorsey  Corcoran's  older  brother,  Edward,  reported  
missing  by  Richard
and  Monica  Macklin  four  days  ago,  Chief  Borton  answered:  'I  think  it 
 looks  much  more
serious than we first supposed, don't you?'

From the Derry News, June 25th, 1958 (page 2):

TEACHER SAYS EDWARD CORCORAN 'OFTEN BRUISED'

Henrietta  Dumont,  who  teaches  fifth  grade  at  Derry  Elementary  School  
on  Jackson  Street,
said  that  Edward  Corcoran,  who  has  now  been  missing  for  nearly  a  
week,  often  came  to
school  'covered  with  bruises.'  Mrs  Dumont,  who  has  taught  one  of  
Derry's  two  fifth-grade
classes since the end of World War II, said that the Corcoran boy came to 
school one day


about  three  weeks  before  his  disappearance  'with  both  eyes  nearly  
closed  shut.  When  I
asked him what happened, he said his father had "taken him up" for not eating 
his supper.'

When  asked  why  she  had  not  reported  a  beating  of  such  obvious  
severity,  Mrs  Dumont
said,  'This  isn't  the  first  time  I've  seen  such  a  thing  as  this  in 
 my  career  as  a  teacher. The
first  few  times  I  had  a  student  with  a  parent  who  was  confusing  
beatings  with  discipline,  I
tried  to  do  something  about  it.  I  was  told  by  the  assistant  
principal,  Gwendolyn  Rayburn  in
those  days,  to  stay  out  of  it.  She  told  me  that  when  school  
employees get involved in cases
of  suspected  child  abuse,  it  always  comes  back  to  haunt  the  School  
Department  at  tax
appropriation  tune.  I  went  to  the  principal  and  he  told  me  to  
forget  it  or  I  would  be
reprimanded.  I  asked  him  if  a  reprimand  in  a  matter  lik e  that  
would  go  on  my  record.  He
said a reprimand did not have to be on a teacher's record. I got the message.'

Asked  if  the  attitude  in  the  Derry  school  system  remained  the  same  
now,  Mrs  Dumont
said,  'Well,  what  does  it  look  like,  in  light  of  this  current 
situation? And I might add that I
would not be speaking to you now if I hadn't retired at the end of this school 
year.'

Mrs  Dumont  went  on,  'Since  this  thing  came  out  I  get  down  on  my  
knees  every  night
and pray that Eddie Corcoran just got fed up  with that beast of a stepfather 
and ran away. I
pray that when he reads in the paper or hears on the news that Macklin has been 
locked up,
Eddie will come home.'

In  a  brief  telephone  interview  Monica  Macklin  hotly  refuted  Mrs  
Dumont's  charges.
'Rich  never  beat  Dorsey,  and  he  never  beat  Eddie,  either,'  she  said. 
 'I'm  telling  you  that
right  now,  and  when  I  die  I'll  stand  at  the  Throne  of  Judgment  and 
 look  God  right  in  the
eye and tell Him the same thing.'

From the Derry News, June 28th, 1958 (page 2):

'DADDY HAD TO TAKE ME UP 'CAUSE I'M BAD,'

TOT TOLD NURSERY TEACHER BEFORE BEATING DEATH

A   local   nursery-school   teacher   who   declined   to   be   identified   
told   a   News   reporter
yesterday  that  young  Dorsey  Corcoran  came  to  his  twice-weekly  
nursery-school  class  with
bad  sprains  of  his  right  thumb  and  three  fingers  of  his  right  hand  
less  than  a  week  before
his death in a purported garage accident.

'It  was  hurting  him  enough  so  that  the  poor  little  guy  couldn't  
color  his  Mr  Do  safety
poster,'  the  teacher  said.  The  fingers  were  swelled  up  like  sausages. 
 When  I  asked  Dorsey
what  happened,  he  said  that  his  father  (stepfather  Richard  P.  
Macklin)  had  bent  his  fingers
back because he had walked across a floor his mother had just washed and waxed. 
"Daddy
had  to  take  me  up  'cause  I'm  bad"  was  the  way  he  put  it.  I  felt  
like  crying,  looking  at  his
poor,  dear  fingers.  He  really  wanted  to  color  his  poster  like  the  
other  children,  so  I  gave
him  some  baby  aspirin  and  let  him  color  while  the  others  were  
having  Story  Time.  He
loved  to color the Mr Do posters  —  that was what he liked best  — and now 
I'm so glad I
was able to help him have a little happiness that day.

'When he died it never crossed my mind to think it was anything but an 
accident. I guess
at  first  I  thought  he  must  have  fallen  because  he  couldn't  grip  
very  well  with  that  hand.
Now I think I just couldn't believe an adult could do such a thing to a little 
person. I know
better now. I wish to God I didn't.'

Dorsey  Corcoran's  older  brother,  Edward,  ten,  is  still  missing.  From  
his  cell  in  Derry
County  Jail,  Richard  Macklin  continues  to  deny  any  part  in  either  
the  death  of  his  younger
stepson or the disappearance of the older boy.

From the Derry News, June 30th, 1958 (page 5):


MACKLIN QUESTIONED IN DEATHS
OF GROGAN, CLEMENTS

Produces Unshakable Alibis, Source Claims

From the Derry News, July 6th, 1958 (page 1):

MACKLIN TO BE CHARGED ONLY WITH MURDER
OF STEPSON DORSEY, BORTON SAYS

Edward Corcoran Still Missing
From the Derry News, July 24th, 1958 (page 1):

WEEPING STEPFATHER CONFESSES TO BLUDGEON DEATH OF
STEPSON

In  a  dramatic  development  in  the  District  Court  trial  of  Richard  
Macklin  for  the  murder  of
his  stepson  Dorsey  Corcoran,  Macklin  broke  down  under  the  stern  
cross-examination  of
County  Attorney  Bradley  Whitsun  and  admitted  he  had  beaten  the  four 
-year-old  boy  to
death  with  a  recoilless  hammer,  which  he  then  buried  at  the  far  end 
 of  his  wife's  vegetable
garden before taking the boy to Derry Home Hospital's emergency room.

The  courtroom  was  stunned  and  sile nt  as  the  sobbing  Macklin,  who  
had  previously

admitted  beating  both  of  his  stepsons  'occasionally,  if  they  had  it  
coming,  for  their  own
good,' poured out his story.

'I don't know what came over me. I saw he was climbing on the damn ladder again 
and I
grabbed the hammer from the bench where it was laying and I just started to use 
it on him.
I didn't mean to kill him. With God as my witness I never meant to kill him.'

'Did he say anything to you before he passed out?' Whitsun asked.
'He said, "Sto p daddy, I'm sorry, I love you,"' Macklin replied.
'Did you stop?'

'Eventually,'  Macklin  said.  He  then  began  to  weep  in  such  a  
hysterical  manner  that
Judge Erhardt Moulton declared the court in recess.

From the Derry News, September 18th, 1958 (page 16):

WHERE IS EDWARD CORCORAN?

His  stepfather,  sentenced  to  a  term  of  two  to  ten  years  in  
Shawshank  State  Prison  for  the
murder  of  his  four-year-old  brother,  Dorsey,  continues  to  claim  he  
has  no  idea  where
Edward  Corcoran  is.  His  mother,  who  has  instituted  divorce  proceedings 
 against  Richard

P. Macklin, says she thinks her soon-to-be ex-husband is lying.
Is he?

'I,  for  one,  really  don't  think  so,'  says  Father  Ashley  O'Brian,  who 
 serves  the  Catholic
prisoners   at   Shawshank.   Macklin   began   taking   instruction   in   the 
  Catholic   faith   shortly
after  beginning  his  prison  term,  and  Father  O'Brian  has  spent  a  good 
 deal  of  time  with
him. 'He is sincerely sorry for what he has done,' Father O'Brian goes on, 
adding that when
he  initially  asked  Macklin  why  he  wanted  to  be  a  Catholic,  Macklin  
replied,  'I  hear  they
have an act of contrition and I need to do a lot of that or else I'll go to 
hell when I die.'


'He   knows   what   he   did   to   the   younger   boy,'   Father   O'Brian   
said.   'If   he   also   did
something  to  the  older  one, he doesn't remember it. As far as Edward goes, 
he believes his
hands are clean.'

How  clean  Macklin's  hands  are  in  the  matter  of  his  stepson  Edward  
is  a  question  which
continues  to  trouble  Derry  residents,  but  he  has  been  convincingly  
cleared  of  the  other
child-murders  which  have  taken  place  here.  He  was  able  to  produce  
ironclad  alibis  for  the
first  three,  and  he  was  in  jail  when  seven  others  were  committed  in 
 late  June,  July,  and
August.

All ten murders remain unsolved.

In  an  exclusive  interview with the  News  last week Macklin again asserted 
that he knows
nothing   of   Edward   Corcoran's   whereabouts.   'I   beat   them   both,'   
he   said   in   a   painful
monologue  which  was  often  halted  by  bouts  of  weeping.  'I  loved  them  
but  I  beat  them.  I
don't  know  why,  any  more than I know why Monica let me, or why she covered 
up for me
after  Dorsey  died.  I  guess  I  could  have  killed  Eddie  as  easy  as  I  
did  Dorsey,  but  I  swear
before  God  and  Jesus  and  all  the  saints  of  heaven  that  I  didn't.  I 
 know  how  it  looks,  but  I
didn't do it. I think he just ran away. If he did, that's one thing I've got to 
thank God for.'

Asked  if  he  is  aware  of  any  gaps  in  his  memory  —  if  he  could  
have  killed  Edward  and
then  blocked  it  out  of  his  mind  —  Macklin  replied:  'I  ain't  aware  
of  any  gaps.  I  know only
too well what I did. I've given my life to Christ, and I'm going to spend the 
rest of it trying
to make up for it.'

From the Derry News, January 27th, 1960 (page 1):

BODY NOT THAT OF CORCORAN YOUTH,
BORTON ANNOUNCES

Police Chief Richard Borton  told  reporters  early  today  that  the  badly  
decomposed body of
a boy about the age of Edward Corcoran, who disappeared from his Derry home in 
June of
1958,   is   definitely   not   that   of   the   missing   youth.   The   body 
  was   found   in   Aynesford,
Massachusetts,  buried  in  a  gravel  pit.  Both  Maine  and  Massachusetts  
State  Police  at  first
theorized    that  the  body  might  be  that  of  the  Corcoran  boy,  
believing  that  he  might  have
been picked up by a child molester after running away from the Charter Street 
home where
his younger brother had been beaten and killed.

Dental  charts  showed  conclusively  that  the  body  found  in  Aynesford  
was  not  that  of  the
Corcoran youth, who has now been missing for nineteen months.

From the Portland Press-Herald, July 19th, 1967 (page 3):

CONVICTED MURDERER COMMITS SUICIDE IN FALMOUTH

Richard  P.  Macklin,  who  was  convicted  of  the  murder  of  his  
four-year-old  stepson  nine
years   ago,   was   found   dead   in   his   small   third-floor  Falmouth  
apartment  late  yesterday
afternoon.  The  parolee,  who  had  lived  and  worked  quietly  in  Falmouth  
since  his  release
from Shawshank State Prison in 1964, was an apparent suicide.

'The  note  he  left  indicates  an  extremely  confused  state  of  mind,'  
Assistant  Falmouth
Police  Chief  Brandon  K.  Roche  said.  He  refused  to  divulge  the  note's 
 contents,  but  a
Police  Department  source  said  it  consisted  of  two  sentences:  'I  saw  
Eddie  last  night.  He
was dead.'

The  'Eddie'  referred  to  may  well  have  been  Macklin's  stepson,  brother 
 of  the  boy

Macklin  was  convicted  of  killing  in  1958.  It  was  the  disappearance  
of  Edward  Corcoran


which  eventually  led  to  Macklin's  conviction  for  the  beating  death  of 
 Edward's  younger
brother, Dorsey. The elder boy has been missing for nine years. In a brief 
court proceeding
in   1966   the   boy's   mother   had   her   son   declared  legally  dead  
so  she  could  enter  into
possession  of  Edward  Corcoran's  savings  account.  The  account  contained  
a  sum  of  sixteen
dollars.

3

Eddie Corcoran was dead, all right.

He  died  on  the  night  of  June  19th,  and  his  stepfather  had  nothing 
at  all  to  do  with  it.  He
died  as  Ben  Hanscom  sat  home  watching  TV  with  his  mother,  as  Eddie  
Kaspbrak's  mother
anxiously  felt  Eddie's  forehead  for  signs  of  her  favorite  ailment,  
'phantom  fever,'  as  Beverly
Marsh's stepfather  —  a  gent  who  bore,  in  temperament at least, a 
remarkable resemblance to
Eddie  and  Dorsey  Corcoran's  stepfather  —  Lifted  a  high-stepping kick 
into the girl's   derriere
and  told  her  'to  get  out  there  and  dry  those  goddam  dishes  like  
your  mummer  told  you,'  as
Mike  Hanlon  got  yelled  at  by  some  high-school  boys  (one  of  whom  
would  some  years  later
sire  that  fine  upstanding  young  homophobe  John  'Webby'  Garton)  passing 
 in  an  old  Dodge
while  Mike  pulled  weeds  out  of  the  garden  beside  the  small  Hanlon  
home  out  on  Witcham
Road,  not  far  from  the  farm  owned  by  Henry  Bowers's  crazy  father,  
as  Richie  Tozier  was
sneaking a look at the half-undressed girls in a copy of  Gem  he had found at 
the bottom of his
father's  socks-and-underwear  drawer  and  getting  a  regular  good  boner,  
and  as  Bill  Denbrough
was throwing his dead brother's photograph album across the room in horrified 
unbelief.

Although  none  of  them  would  remember  doing  so  later,  all  of  them  
looked  up  at  the.  exact
moment Eddie Corcoran died . . . as if hearing some distant cry.

The  News   had  been  absolutely  right  about  one  thing:  Eddie's  rank 
-card   was   just   bad

enough  to  make  him  afraid  to  go  home  and  face  his  stepdad.  Also,  
his  mother  and  the  old
man  were  fighting  a  lot  this  month.  That  made  things  even  worse.  
When  they  got  going  at  it
hot   and   heavy,   his   mother   shouted   a   lot   of   mostly   
incoherent   accusations.   His   stepdad
responded  to  these  first  with  grunts,  then  yells  to  shut  up,  and  
finally  with  the  enraged
bellows  of  a  boar  which  has  gotten  a  quiver  of  porcupine  needles  in 
 its  snout.  Eddie  had
never  seen  the  old  man  use  his  fists  on  her,  though.  Eddie  didn't  
think  he  quite  dared.  He  had
saved  his  fists  for  Eddie  and  Dorsey  in  the  old  days,  and  now  that 
 Dorsey  was  dead,  Eddie
got his little brother's share as well as his own.

These  shouting  matches  came  and  went  in  cycles.  They  were  most  
common  at  the  end  of
the  month,  when  the  bills  came  in.  A  policeman,  called  by  a  
neighbor,  might  drop  by  once  or
twice when things were at their worst and tell them to tone it down. Usually 
that ended it. His
mother  was  apt  to  give  the  cop  the  finger  and  dare  him  to  take  
her  in,  but  his  stepdad  rarely
said boo.

His stepdad was afraid of the cops, Eddie thought.

He  lay  low  during  these  periods  of  stress.  It  was  wiser.  If  you  
didn't  think  so,  just  look  at
what  had  happened  to  Dorsey.  Eddie  didn't  know  the  specifics  and  
didn't  want  to,  but  he  had
an idea about Dorsey. He thought that Dorsey had been in the wrong place at the 
wrong time:
the  garage  on  the  last  day  of  the  month.  They  told  Eddie  that  
Dorsey  fel off the stepladder in
the garage — 'If I told him once to stay off n it I told him sixty times,' his 
stepdad had said

—  but  his  mother  wouldn't  look  at  him  except  by  accident  .  .  .  
and  when  their  eyes  did
meet,  Eddie  had  seen  a  frightened  ratty  little  gleam  in  hers  that  
he  didn't  like.  The  old  man
just  sat  there  silently  at  the  kitchen  table  with  a  quart  of  
Rheingold,  looking  at  nothing  from
beneath  his  heavy  lowering  eyebrows.  Eddie  kept  out  of  his  reach.  
When  his  stepfather  was


bellowing,  he  was  usually —  not  always  but  usually —  all  right.  It  
was  when  he  stopped  that
you had to be careful.

Two nights ago he had thrown a chair at Eddie when Eddie got up to see what was 
on the
other TV channel  —  just  picked  up  one  of  the  tubular  aluminum  kitchen 
 chairs, swept it back
over  his  head,  and  let  fly.  It  hit  Eddie  in  the  butt  and  knocked  
him  over.  His  butt  still  ached,
but he knew it could have been worse: it could have been his head.

Then  there  had  been  the  night  when  the  old  man  had  suddenly  gotten  
up  and  rubbed  a
handful  of  mashed  potatoes  into  Eddie's  hair  for  no  reason  at  all.  
One  day  last  September,
Eddie  had  come  in  from  school  and  foolishly  allowed  the  screen  door  
to  slam  shut  behind
him  while  his  stepdad  was  taking  a  nap.  Macklin  came  out  of  the  
bedroom  in  his  billowy
boxer  shorts,  hair  standing  up  in  corkscrews,  cheeks  grizzled  with  
two  days  of  weekend
beard,  breath  grizzled  with  two  days  of  weekend  beer.  'There  now,  
Eddie,'  he  said,  'I  got  to
take  you  up  for  slammin  that  fuckin  door.'  In  Rich Macklin's  lexicon, 
 'taking  you  up'  was  a
euphemism  for  'beating  the  shit  out  of  you.'  Which  was  what  he  then 
 did  to  Eddie.  Eddie  had
lost  consciousness  when  the  old  man  threw  him  into  the  front  hall.  
His  mother  had  mounted  a
pair  of  low  coathooks  out  there,  especially  for  him  and  Dorsey  to  
hang  their  coats  on.  These
hooks  had  rammed  hard  steel  fingers  into  Eddie's  lower  back,  and  
that  was  when  he  passed
out. When he came to ten minutes later he heard his mother yelling that she was 
going to take
Eddie to the hospital and he couldn't stop her.

'After  what  happened  to  Dorsey?'  his  stepdad  had  responded.  'You  want 
 to  go  to  jail,
woman?'

That  was  the  end  of  her  talk  about  the  hospital.  She  helped  Eddie  
in  to  his  room,  where  he

lay  shivering  on  his  bed,  his  forehead  beaded  with  sweat.  The  only  
time  he  left  the  room
during  the  next  three  days  was  when  they  were  both  gone.  Then  he  
would  hobble  slowly  into
the  kitchen,  groaning  softly,  and  get  his  stepdad's  whiskey  from  
under  the  sink.  A  few  nips
dulled the  pain. The pain was mostly gone by the fifth day, but he had pissed 
blood for almost
two weeks.

And the hammer wasn't in the garage anymore.

What about that? What about that, friends and neighbors?

Oh,  the  Craftsman  hammer  —  the  ordinary  hammer  —  was  still  there.  
It  was  the  Scotti
recoilless  which  was  missing.  His  stepdad's  special  hammer,  the  one  
he  and  Dorsey  had  been
forbidden  to  touch.  'If  one  of  you  touches  that  baby,'  he  had  told  
them  the  day  he  bought  it,
'you'll  both  be  wearing  your  guts   for  earmuffs.'  Dorsey  had  asked  
timidly  if  that  hammer  was
very  expensive.  The  old  man  told  him  he  was  damn  tooting.  He  said  
it  was  filled  with  ball-
bearings and you couldn't make it bounce back up no matter how hard you brought 
it down.

Now it was gone.

Eddie's  grades  weren't  the  best  because  he  had  missed  a  lot  of  
school  since  his  mother's
remarriage,  but  he  was  not  a  stupid  boy  by  any  means.  He  thought  
he  knew  what  had
happened  to  the  Scotti  recoilless  hammer.  He  thought  maybe  his  
stepfather  had  used  it  on
Dorsey  and  then  buried  it  in  the  garden  or  maybe  thrown  it  in  the  
Canal.  It  was  the  sort  of
thing  that  happened  frequently  in  the  horror  comics  Eddie  read,  the  
ones  he  kept  on  the  top
shelf of his closet.

He  walked  closer  to  the  Canal,  which rippled  between  its  concrete  
sides  like  oiled  silk.  A
swatch  of  moonlight  glimmered  across  its  dark  surface  in  a  boomerang  
shape.  He  sat  down,
swinging  his  sneakers  idly  against  the  concrete  in  an  irregular  
tattoo.  The  last  six  weeks  had
been  quite  dry  and  the  water  flowed  past  perhaps  nine  feet  below  
the  worn  soles  of  his
sneakers.  But  if  you  looked  closely  at  the  Canal's  sides,  you  could  
read  the  various  levels  to
which  it  sometimes  rose  quite  easily.  The  concrete  was  stained  a  
dark  brown  just  above  the
water's  current  level.  This  brown  stain  slowly  faded  to  yellow,  then  
to  a  color  that  was  almost
white at the level where the heels of Eddie's sneakers made contact when he 
swung them.


The  water  flowed  smoothly  and  silently  out  of  a  concrete  arch  that  
was  cobbled  on  the
inside,  past  the  place  where  Eddie  sat,  and  then  down  to  the  
covered  wooden  footbridge
between  Bassey  Park  and  Derry  High  School.  The  bridge's  sides  and  
plank  footing  — even
the  beams  under  the  roof  —  were  covered  with  an  intaglio  of  
initials,  phone  numbers,  and
declarations.  Declarations  of  love;  declarations  that  So-and-so  was  
willing  to  'suck'  or  'blow';
declarations  that  those  discovered  sucking  or  blowing  would  lose  their 
 foreskins  or  have  their
assholes   plugged   with   hot   tar;   occasional   eccentric   declarations  
 that   defied   definition.   One
that  Eddie  had  puzzled  over  all  this  spring  read  SAVE  RUSSIAN  JEWS!  
COLLECT  VALUABLE
PRIZES!

What, exactly, did that mean? Anything? And did it matter?

Eddie  didn't  go  into  the  Kissing  Bridge  tonight;  he  had  no  urge  to  
cross  over  to  the  high-
school  side.  He  thought  he  would  probably  sleep  in  the  park,  maybe  
in  the  dead  leaves  under
the bandstand, but for now it was fine just to sit here. He liked it in the 
park, and came often
when  he  had  to  think.  Sometimes  there  were  people  making  out  in  the 
 groves  of  trees  which
dotted  the  park,  but  Eddie  left  them  alone  and  they  left  him  alone. 
 He  had  heard  lurid  stories
in  the  playground  at  school  about  the  queers  that  cruised  in  Bassey  
Park  after  sundown,  and
he  accepted  these  stories  without  question,  but  he  himself  had  never  
been  bothered.  The  park
was  a  peaceful  place,  and  he  thought  the  best  part  of  it  was  right 
 here  where  he  was  sitting.
He  liked  it  in  the  middle  of  summer,  when  the  water  was  so  low  it 
 chuckled  over  the  stones
and  actually  broke  up  into  isolated  streamlets  that  twisted  and  
turned  and  sometimes  came
together  again.  He  liked  it  in  late  March  or  early  April,  just  
after  ice-out,  when  he  would
sometimes  stand  by  the  Canal  (too  cold  to  sit  then;  your  ass  would  
freeze)  for  an  hour  or
more,   the  hood  of  his  old  parka,  now  two  years  too  small  for  him, 
 pulled  up,  his  hands
plunged  into  his  pockets,  unaware  that  his  skinny  body  was  shivering  
and  shaking.  The  Canal
had      a  terrible,  irresistible  power  in the  week  or  two  after  the  
ice  went  out.  He  was  fascinated
by  the  way  the  water  boiled  whitely  out  of  the  cobbled  arch  and  
roared  past  him,  bearing
sticks  and  branches  and  all  manner  of  human  trash  along  with  it.  
More  than  once  he  had
envisioned  walking  beside  the  Canal  in  March  with  his  stepdad  and  
giving  the  bastard  a  great
big  motherfucking  push.  He  would  scream  and  fall  in,  his  arms  
pinwheeling  for  balance,  and
Eddie  would  stand  on  the  concrete  parapet  and  watch  him  carried  off  
downstream,  his  head  a
black  bobbing  shape  in  the  middle  of  the  unruly  whitecapped  current.  
He  would  stand  there,
yes,  and  he  would  cup  his  hands  around  his  mouth  and  scream:  THAT  
WAS  FOR  DORSEY,
YOU  ROTTEN  COCK-SUCKER!  WHEN  YOU  GET  DOWN  TO  HELL  TELL  THE  DEVIL
THE   LAST   THING   YOU   EVER   HEARD   WAS   ME   TELLING   YOU   TO   PICK  
 ON

SOMEBODY  YOUR  OWN  SIZE!  It  would  never  happen,  of  course,  but  it  
was  an  absolutely
grand fantasy. A grand dream to dream as you sat here by the Canal, a g —

A hand closed around Eddie's foot.

He  had  been  looking  across  the  Canal  toward  the  school,  smiling  a  
sleepy  and  rather
beautiful  smile  as  he  imagined  his  stepfather  being  carried  off  in  
the  violent  rip  of  the  spring
runoff,  being  carried  out  of  his  life  forever.  The  soft  yet  strong  
grip  startled  him  so  much that
he almost lost his balance and tumbled into the Canal.

Its one of the queers the big kids are always talking about, he thought, and 
then he looked

down.  His  mouth  dropped  open.  Urine  spilled  hotly  down  his  legs  and  
stained  his  jeans  black
in the moonlight. It wasn't a queer.

It was Dorsey.

It  was  Dorsey  as  he  had  been  buried,  Dorsey  in  his  blue  blazer  and 
 gray  pants,  only  now
the  blazer  was  in  muddy  tatters,  Dorsey's  shirt  was  yellow  rags,  
Dorsey's  pants  clung  wetly  to
legs  as  thin  as  broomsticks.  And  Dorsey's  head  was  horribly  slumped,  
as if it had been caved
in at the back and consequently pushed up in the front.

Dorsey was grinning.


'Eddieeeee,'  his  dead  brother  croaked,  just  like  one  of  the  dead  
people  who  were  always
coming  back  from  the  grave  in  the  horror  comics.  Dorsey's  grin  
widened.  Yellow  teeth
gleamed, and somewhere way back in that darkness things seemed to be squirming.

'Eddieeee . . . I came to see you Eddieeeeee . . . '

Eddie  tried  to  scream.  Waves  of  gray  shock  rolled  over  him,  and  he  
had  the  curious
sensation  that  he  was  floating.  But  it  was  not  a  dream;  he  was  
awake.  The  hand  on  his
sneaker was as white as a trout's belly. His brother's bare feet clung somehow 
to the concrete.
Something had bitten one of Dorsey's heels off.

'Come on down Eddieeeee . . . '

Eddie  couldn't  scream.  His  lungs  didn't  have  enough  ah  — in them to 
manage a scream. He
got  out  a  curious  reedy  moaning  sound.  Anything  louder  seemed  beyond  
him.  That  was  all
right.  In  a  second  or two  his  mind  would  snap  and  after  that  
nothing  would  matter.  Dorsey's
hand  was  small  but  implacable.  Eddie's  buttocks  were  sliding  over  the 
 concrete  to  the  edge  of
the Canal.

Still   making   that   reedy   moaning   sound,   he   reached   behind   
himself   and   grabbed  the
concrete  edging  and  yanked  himself  backward.  He  felt  the  hand  slide  
away  momentarily,
heard an angry hiss, and had time to think:  That's not Dorsey. I don't know 
what it is, but it's
not Dorsey.  Then  adrenaline  flooded  his  body  and  he  was  crawling  
away, trying to run even
before he was on his feet, his breath coming in short shrieky whistles.

White  hands  appeared  on  the  concrete  lip  of  the  Canal.  There  was  a  
wet  slapping  sound.
Drops  of  water  flew  upward  in  the  moonlight  from  dead  pallid  skin.  
Now  Dorsey's  face
appeared  over  the  edge.  Dim  red  sparks  gleamed  in  his  sunken  eyes.  
His  wet  hair  was
plastered to his skull. Mud streaked his cheeks like warpaint.

Eddie's  chest  finally  unlocked.  He  hitched  in  breath  and  turned  it  
into  a  scream.  He  got  to
his  feet  and  ran.  He  ran  looking  back  over  his  shoulder,  needing  to 
 see  where  Dorsey  was,
and as a result he ran smack into a large elm tree.

It  felt  as  if  someone  —  his  old  man,  for  instance  —  had  set  off  
a  dynamite  charge  in  his
left  shoulder.  Stars shot and corkscrewed through his head. He fell at the 
base of the tree as if
poleaxed,  blood  trickling  from  his  left  temple.  He  swam  in  the  
waters  of  semiconsciousness
for  perhaps  ninety  seconds.  Then  he  managed  to  gain  his  feet  again.  
A  groan  escaped  him as
he tried to raise his left arm. It didn't want to come. Felt all numb and far 
away. So he raised
his right and rubbed his fiercely aching head.

Then  he  remembered  why  he  had  happened  to  run  full-tilt  into  the  
elm  tree  in  the  first
place and looked around.

There  was  the  edge  of  the  Canal,  white  as  bone  and  straight  as  
string  in  the  moonlight.  No
sign  of  the  thing  from  the  Canal  .  .  .  if  there  ever   had  been  a 
 thing.  He  continued  turning,
working  his  way  slowly  through  a  complete  three  hundred  and  sixty  
degrees.  Bassey  Park
was  silent  and  as  still  as  a  black-and-white  photograph.  Weeping  
willows  draggled  their  thin
tenebrous arms, and anything could be standing, slumped and insane, within 
their shelter.

Eddie  began  to  walk,  trying  to  look  everywhere  at  once.  His  sprained 
 shoulder  throbbed  in
painful sync with his heartbeat.

Eddieeeee, the breeze moaned through the trees, don't you want to see meeeee, 
Eddieeeee?

He  felt  flabby  corpse-fingers  caress  the  side  of  his  neck.  He  
whirled,  his  hands  going up. As
his  feet  tangled  together  and  he  fell,  he  saw  that  it  had  only  
been  willow-fronds moving in the
breeze.

He  got  up  again.  He  wanted  to  run  but  when  he  tried  another  
dynamite  charge  went  off  in
his  shoulder  and  he  had  to  stop.  He  knew  somehow  that  he  should  be 
 getting  over  his  fright
by  now,  calling  himself  a  stupid  little  baby  who  got  spooked  by  a  
reflection  or  maybe  fell
asleep  without  knowing  it  and  had  a  bad  dream.  That  wasn't  
happening,  though;  quite  the
reverse,  in  fact.  His  heart  was  now  beating  so  fast  he  could  no  
longer  distinguish  the  separate


thuds,  and  he  felt  sure  it  would  soon  burst  in  terror.  He  couldn't  
run  but  when  he  got  out  of
the willows he did manage a limping jogtrot.

He  fixed  his  eyes  on  the  streetlight  that  marked  the  park's  main  
gate.  He  headed  in  that
direction, managing a little more speed, thinking:  I'll  make it to the light, 
and that's all right.
I'll make it to the light, and that's all right. Bright light, no more fright, 
up all night, what a
sight —

Something was following him.

Eddie  could  hear  it  bludgeoning  its  way  through  the  willow  grove.  If 
 he  turned  he  would
see  it.  It  was  gaining.  He  could  hear  its  feet,  a  kind  of  
shuffling,  squelching  stride,  but  he
would  not  look  back,  no,  he  would  look  ahead  at  the  light,  the  
light  was  all  right,  he  would
just continue his flight to the light, and he was almost there, almost —

The  smell  was  what  made  him  look  back.  The  overwhelming  smell,  as  
if  fish  had  been  left
to  rot  in  a  huge  pile  that  had  become  carrion-slushy in the summer 
heat. It was the smell of a
dead ocean.

It  wasn't  Dorsey  after  him  now;  it  was  the  Creature  from  the  Black  
Lagoon.  The  thing's
snout  was  long  and  pleated.  Green  fluid  dripped  from  black  gashes  
like  vertical  mouths  in  its
cheeks.  Its  eyes  were  white  and  jellylike.  Its  webbed  fingers  were  
tipped  with  claws  like
razors.  Its  respiration  was  bubbly  and  deep,  the  sound  of  a  diver  
with  a  bad  regulator.  As  it
saw  Eddie  looking,  its  green-black  lips  wrinkled  back  from  huge  fangs 
 in  a  dead and vacant
smile.

It  shambled  after  him,  dripping,  and  Eddie  suddenly  understood.  It  
meant  to  take  him  back
to  the  Canal,  to  carry  him  down  into  the  dank  blackness  of  the  
Canal's  underground  passage.
To eat him there.

Eddie  put  on  a  burst  of  speed.  The  arc-sodium  light  at  the  gate  
drew  closer.  He  could  see
its  halo  of  bugs  and  moths.  A  truck  went  by,  headed  for  Route  2,  
the  driver  working  his  way
up   through   the   gears,   and   it   crossed   Eddie's   desperate,   
terrified   mind   that   he   could   be
drinking   coffee   from   a   paper   cup   and   listening   to   a   Buddy   
Holly   tune   on   the   radio,
completely  unaware  that  less  than  two  hundred  yards  away  there  was  a 
 boy  who  might  be
dead      in another twenty seconds.

The stink. The overwhelming stink of it. Gaining. All around him.

It  was  a  park  bench  he  tripped  over.  Some  kids  had  casually  pushed  
it  over  earlier  that
evening, heading toward their homes at a run to beat the curfew. Its seat poked 
an inch or two
out  of  the  grass,  one  shade  of  green  on  another,  almost  invisible  
in the moon-driven dark. The
edge of the seat smacked Eddie in the shins, causing a burst of glassy, 
exquisite pain. His legs
flipped out behind him and he thumped into the grass.

He  looked  behind  him  and  saw  the  Creature  bearing  down,  its  white  
poached-egg eyes
glittering,  its  scales  dripping  slime  the  color  of  seaweed,  the  gills 
 up  and  down  its  bulging
neck and cheeks opening and closing.

ˡAgr Eddie croaked. It seemed to be the only noise he could make. 'Ag! 
Ag'Ag.'Ag!'

He crawled now, fingers hooking deep into the turf. His tongue hung out.

In  the  second  before  the  Creature's  fish-smelling  horny  hands  closed  
around  his  throat,  a
comforting thought came to him:  This  is  a  dream;  it  has  to  be.  There's 
 no  real Creature, no
real  Black  Lagoon,  and  even  if  there  was,  that  was  in  South  America 
 or  the  Florida
Everglades or someplace like that. This is only a dream and I'll wake up in my 
bed or maybe
in the leaves under the bandstand and I —

Then  batrachian  hands  closed  around  his  neck  and  Eddie's hoarse cries 
were choked off; as
the  Creature  turned  him  over,  the  chitinous  hooks  which  sprouted  from 
 those  hands  scrawled
bleeding  marks  like  calligraphy  into  his  neck.  He  stared  into  its  
glowing  white  eyes.  He  felt
the   webs   between   its   fingers   pressing   against   his   throat   like 
  constricting   bands   of   living
seaweed.   His   terror-sharpened   gaze   noted   the   fin,   something   
like   a   rooster's   comb   and


something   like   a   hornpout's   poisonous   backfin,   standing   atop   
the   Creature's   hunched   and
plated  head.  As  its  hands  clamped  tight,  shutting  off  his  air,  he  
was  even  able  to  see  the  way
the  white  light  from  the  arc-sodium  lamp  turned  a  smoky  green  as  it 
 passed  through  that
membranous headfin.

'You're . . . not . . . real,' Eddie choked, but clouds of grayness were 
closing in now, and he
realized faintly that it was real enough, this Creature. It was, after all, 
killing him.

And  yet  some  rationality  remained,  even  until  the  end:  as  the  
Creature  hooked  its  claws
into  the  soft  meat  of  his  neck,  as  his  carotid  artery  let  go  in  a 
 warm  and  painless  gout  that
splashed  the  thing's  reptilian  plating,  Eddie's  hands  groped  at  the  
Creature's  back,  feeling  for
a  zipper.  They  fell  away  only  when  the  Creature  tore  his  head  from  
his  shoulders  with  a  low
satisfied grunt.

And    as    Eddie's   picture   of   what   It   was   began   to   fade,   It 
  began   promptly   to
change into something else.

4

Unable  to  sleep,  plagued  by  bad  dreams,  a  boy  named  Michael  Hanlon  
rose  soon  after  first
light  on  the  first  full  day  of  summer  vacation.  The  light  was  pale, 
 bundled up in a low, thick
mist that would lift by eight o'clock, taking the wraps off a perfect summer 
day.

But  that  was  for  later.  For  now  the  world  was  all  gray  and  rose,  
as  silent  as  a  cat  walking

on a carpet.

Mike,  dressed  in  corduroys,  a  tee-shirt,  and  black  high-topped  Keds,  
came  downstairs,  ate
a bowl of Wheaties (he didn't really like Wheaties but had wanted the free 
prize in the box  —
a  Captain  Midnight  Magic  Decoder  Ring),  then  hopped  on  his  bike  and  
pedaled  toward  town,
riding  on  the  sidewalks  because  of  the  fog.  The  fog  changed  
everything,  made  the  most
ordinary   things   like   fire   hydrants   and   stop-signs   into   objects  
 of   mystery   —   things   both
strange  and  a  trifle  sinister.  You  could  hear  cars  but  not  see  
them,  and  because  of  the  fog's
odd  acoustic  quality,  you  could  not  tell  if  they  were  far  or  near  
until  you  actually  saw  them
come rolling out of the fog with ghost-halos of moisture ringing their 
headlamps.

He  turned  right  on  Jackson  Street,  bypassing  downtown,  and  then  
crossed  to  Main  Street
by  way  of  Palmer  Lane  —  and  during  his  short  ride  down  this  little 
 byway's  one-block length
he passed the house where he would live as an adult. He did not look at it; it 
was just a small
two-story  dwelling  with  a  garage  and  a  small  lawn.  It  gave  off no  
special  vibration  to  the
passing boy who would spend most of his adult life as its owner and only 
dweller.

At  Main  Street  he  turned  right  and  rode  up  to  Bassey  Park,  still  
wandering,  simply  riding

and  enjoying  the  stillness  of  the  early  day.  Once  ni side  the  main  
gate  he  dismounted  his  bike,

pushed  down  the  kickstand,  and  walked  toward  the  Canal.  He  was  
still,  as  far  as  he  knew,
impelled  by  nothing  more  than  purest  whim.  Certainly  it  did  not  
occur  to  him  to  think  that  his
dreams  of  the  night  before  had  anything  to  do  with  his  current  
course;  he  did  not  even
remember  exactly  what  his  dreams  had  been  —  only  that  one  had  
followed  another  until  he
had  awakened  at  five  o'clock,  sweaty  but  shivering,  and  with  the  
idea  that  he  ought  to  eat  a
fast breakfast and then take a bike-ride into town.

Here  in  Bassey  there  was  a  smell  in  the  fog  he  didn't  like:  a  
sea-smell,  salty  and  old.  He
had  smelled  it  before,  of  course.  In  the  early -morning  fogs  you  
could  often  smell  the  ocean  in
Derry,  although  the  coast  was  forty  miles  away.  But  the  smell  this  
morning  seemed  thicker,
more vital. Almost dangerous.

Something  caught  his  eye.  He  bent  down  and  picked  up  a  cheap  
two-blade pocket knife.
Someone  had  scratched  the  initials  EC  on  the  side.  Mike  looked  at  
it  thoughtfully  for  a
moment or two and then pocketed it. Finders keepers, losers weepers.


He  glanced  around.  Here,  near  where  he  had  found  the  knife,  was  an  
overturned  park
bench.  He  righted  it,  setting  its  iron  footings  back  into  the  holes  
they  had  made  over  a period
of  months  or  years.  Beyond  the  bench  he  saw  a  matted  place  in  the  
grass  .  .  .  and  leading
away  from  it,  two  grooves.  The  grass  was  springing  back  up,  but  
those  grooves  were  still
fairly clear. They went in the direction of the Canal. ; And there was blood.

(the bird remember the bird remember the)

But  he  did  not  want  to  remember  the  bird  and  so  he  pushed  the  
thought  away.  Dogfight,
that's all. One of 'em must have hurt the other one pretty bad.  It was a 
convincing thought by
which  he  was  somehow  not  convinced.  Thoughts  of  the  bird  kept  
wanting  to  come  back   —
the  one  he  had  seen  out  at  the  Kitchener  Ironworks,  one  Stan  Uris  
never  would  have  found  in
his bird-book.

But  instead  of  getting  out  he  followed  the  grooves.  As  he  did  he  
made  up  a  little  story  in
his  mind.  It  was  a  murder  story.  Here's  this  kid,  out  late,  see.  
Out  past  the  curfew.  The  killer
gets  him.  And  how  does  he  get  rid  of  the  body?  Drags  it  to  the  
Canal  and  dumps  it  in,  of
course! Just like an Alfred Hitchcock Presents!

The   marks   he   was   following   could  have  been  made  by  a  dragging  
pair  of  shoes  or
sneakers, he supposed.

Mike shivered and looked around uncertainly. The story was somehow a little too 
real.

And suppose that it wasn't a man who did it but a monster. Like out of a horror 
comic or a
horror book or a horror movie or

(a bad dream)

a fairytale or something.

He decided he didn't like the story. It was a stupid story. He tried to push it 
out of his mind
but  it  wouldn't  go.  So  what?  Let  it  stay.  It  was dumb. Riding into 
town this morning had been
dumb.  Following  these  two  matted  grooves  in  the  grass  was  dumb.  His  
dad  would  have  a  lot
of chores for him to do around the place today. He ought to get back and start 
in or when the
hottest  part  of  the  afternoon  rolled  around  he  would  be  up  the  barn 
 loft  pitching  hay.  Yes,  he
ought to get back. And that's just what he was going to do.

Sure you are, he thought. Want to bet?

Instead  of  going  back  to  his  bike  and  getting  on  and  riding  home  
and  starting  his chores, he
followed the grooves in the grass. There were more drops of drying blood here 
and there. Not
much,  though.  Not  as  much  as  there  had  been  in  that  matted  place  
back  there  by  the  park
bench he had set to rights.

Mike  could  hear  the  Canal  now,  running  quiet.  A  moment  later  he  saw 
 the  concrete  edge
materialize out of the fog.

Here  was  something  else  in  the  grass.  My  goodness,  it's  certainly  
your  day  for  finding
things,  his  mind  said  with  dubious  geniality,  and  then  a  gull  
screamed  somewhere   and Mike
flinched, thinking again of the bird he had seen that day, that day just this 
spring.

Whatever that is in the grass, I don't even want to look at it. And that was oh 
so very true,
but  here  he  was,  already  bending  over  it,  hands  planted  just  above  
his  knees,  to  see  what  it
was.

A tattered bit of cloth with a drop of blood on it.

The  seagull  screamed  again.  Mike  stared  at  the  bloody  scrap  of  cloth 
 and  remembered
what had happened to him in the spring.

5

Each year during April and May the Hanlon farm woke up from its winter doze.


Mike  would  let  himself  know  that  spring  had  come  again  not  when  the 
 first  crocuses
showed  under  his  mom's  kitchen  windows  or  when  kids  started  bringing  
immies  and  croakers
to  school  or  even  when  the  Washington  Senators  kicked  off  the  
baseball  season  (usually
getting  themselves  shellacked  in  the  process),  but  only  when  his  
father  hollered  for  Mike  to
help  him  push  their  mongrel  truck  out  of  the  barn.  The  front  half  
was  an  old  Model-A Ford
car,  the  back  end  a  pick-up truck with a tailgate which was the remainder 
of the old henhouse
door. If the winter hadn't been too cold, the two of them could often get it 
going by pushing it
down  the  driveway.  The  truck's  cab  had  no  doors;  likewise  there  was  
no  windshield.  The seat
was  half  of  an  old  sofa  that  Will  Hanlon  had  scrounged  from  the  
Derry  dump.  The  stick-shift
ended in a glass doorknob.

They  would  push  it  down  the  driveway,  one  on  each  side,  and  when  
it  got  rolling  good,
Will  would  jump  in,  turn  on  the  switch,  retard  the  spark,  step  down 
 on  the  clutch,  punch  the
shift  into  first  gear  with  his  big  hand  clamped  over  the  doorknob.  
Then  he  would  holler:  'Put
me  over  the  hump!'  He'd  pop  the  clutch  and  the  old  Ford  engine  
would  cough,  choke,  chug,
backfire  .  .  .  and  sometimes  actually  start  to  run,  rough  at  first, 
 then  smoothing  out.  Will
would roar down the road toward Rhulin Farms, turn around in their driveway (if 
he had gone
the  other  way,  Henry  Bowers's  crazy  father  Butch  probably  would  have  
blown  his  head  off
with  a   shotgun),   and   then   roar   back,   the   unmuffled   engine   
blatting   stridently   while   Mike
jumped  up  and  down  with  excitement,  cheering,  and  his  mom  stood  in  
the  kitchen  doorway,
wiping her hands on a dishtowel and pretending a disgust she didn't really 
feel.

Other  times  the  truck  wouldn't  roll-start  and  Mike  would  have  to  
wait  until  his  father  came
back  from  the  barn,  carrying  the  crank  and  muttering  under  his  
breath.  Mike  was  quite  sure
that  some  of  the  words  so  muttered  were  swears,  and  he  would  be  a  
little frightened of his
daddy  then.  (It  wasn't  until  much  later,  during  one  of  those  
interminable  visits  to  the  hospital
room  where  Will  Hanlon  lay  dying,  that  he  found  out  his  father  
muttered  because  he  was
afraid  of  the  crank:  once  it  had  kicked  back  viciously,  flown  out  
of  its  socket,  and  torn  the
side of his mouth open.)

'Stand  back,  Mikey,'  he  would  say,  slipping  the  crank  into  its  
socket  at  the  base  of  the
radiator.  And  when  the  A  was  finally  running,  he'd  say  that  next  
year  he  was  going  to  trade  it
for  a  Chevrolet,  but  he  never  did.  That  old  A-Ford hybrid was still in 
back of the home place,
up to its axles and henhouse tailgate in weeds.

When  it  was  running,  and  Mike  was  sitting  in  the  passenger  seat,  
smelling  hot  oil  and  blue
exhaust,  excited  by  the  keen  breeze  that  washed  in  through  the  
glassless  hole  where  the
windshield  had  once  been,  he  would  think:  Spring's here again. We're all 
waking up.  And in
his  soul  he  would  raise  a  silent  cheer  that  shook  the  wails  of  
that  mostly  cheerful  room.  He
felt  love  for  everything  around  him,  and  most  of  all  for  his  dad,  
who  would  grin  over  at  him
and  holler:  'Hold  on,  Mikey!  We  gone  wind  this  baby  up!  We  gone  
make  some  birds  run  for
cover!'

Then  he  would  tear  up  the  driveway,  the  A's  rear  wheels  spitting  
back black dirt and gray
clods  of  clay,  both  of  them  jouncing  up  and  down  on  the  sofa-seat  
inside  the  open  cab,
laughing  like  stark  natural-born  fools.  Will  would  run  the  A  through  
the  high  grass  of  the
back  field,  which  was  kept  for  hay,  toward  either  the  south  field  
(potatoes),  the  west  field
(corn  and  beans),  or  the  east  field  (peas,  squash,  and  pumpkins).  As 
 they  went,  birds  would
burst  up  out  of  the  grass  before  the  truck,  squawking  in  terror.  
Once  a  partridge  flew  up,  a
magnificent  bird  as  brown  as  late-autumn  oaks,  the  explosive  coughing  
whirr  of  its  wings
audible even over the pounding engine.

Those rides were Mike Hanlon's door into spring.

The year's work began with the rock harvest. Every day for a week they would 
take the A
out  and  load  the  bed  with  rocks  which  might  break  a  harrow-blade  
when  the  time  came  to
turn  the  earth  and  plant.  Sometimes  the  truck  would  get  stuck  in  
the  mucky  spring  earth  and


Will  would  mutter  darkly  under  his  breath  .  .  .  more  swears,  Mike  
surmised.  He  knew  some
of  the  words  and  expressions;  others,  such  as  'son  of  a  whore,'  
puzzled  him.  He  had  come
across  the  word  in  the  Bible,  and  so  far  as  he  could  tell,  a  
whore  was  a  woman  who  came
from a place called Babylon. He had once set out to ask his father, but the A 
had  been in mud
up  to  her  coil-springs,  there  had  been  thunderclouds  on  his  father's  
brow,  and  he  had  decided
to  wait  for  a  better  time.  He  ended  up  asking  Richie  Tozier  later  
that  year  and  Richie  told  him
his  father  had  told  him  a  whore  was  a  woman  who  got  paid for having 
sex with men. 'What's
having sex?' Mike had asked, and Richie had wandered away holding his head.

On  one  occasion  Mike  had  asked  his  father  why,  since  they  harvested  
rocks  every  April,
there were always more of them the following April.

They  had  been  standing  at  the  dumping-off  place  near  sunset  on  the  
last  day  of  that  year's

rock  harvest.  A  beaten  dirt  track,  not  quite  serious  enough  to  be  
called  a  road,  led  from  the
bottom  of  the  west  field  to  this  gully  near  the  bank  of  the  
Kenduskeag.  The  gully  was  a
jumbled wasteland of rocks that had been dragged off Will's land through the 
years.

Looking down at this badlands, which he had made first alone and then with the 
help of his
son  (somewhere  under  the  rocks,  he  knew,  were  the  rotting  remains  of 
 the  stumps  he  had
yanked  out  one  at  a  time  before  any  of  the  fields  could  be  
tilled),  Will  had  lighted  a  cigarette
and said, 'My daddy used to tell me that God loved rocks, houseflies, weeds, 
and poor people
above all the rest of His creations, and that's why He made so many of them.'

'But every year it's like they come back.'

'Yeah, I think they do,' Will said. That's the only way I know to explain it.'

A  loon  cried  from  the  far  side  of  the  Kenduskeag  in  a  dusky  sunset 
 that  had  turned  the
water  a  deep  orange-red.  It  was  a  lonely  sound,  so  lonely  that  it  
made  Mike's  tired  arms
tighten with gooseflesh.

'I love you. Daddy,' he said suddenly, feeling his love so strongly that tears 
stung his eyes.

'Why,  I  love  you  too,  Mikey,'  his  father  said,  and  hugged  him  tight 
 in  his  strong  arms.
Mike  felt  the  rough  fabric  of  his  father's  flannel  shirt  against  his 
 cheek.  'Now  what  do  you  say
we  go  on  back?  We  got  just  time  to  get  a  bath  each  before  the  
good  woman  puts  supper  on
the table.'

'Ayuh,' Mike said.

'Ayuh  yourself,'  Will  Hanlon  said,  and  they  both  laughed,  feeling  
tired  but  feeling  good,
arms  and  legs  worked  but  not  overworked,  their  hands  rock-roughened  
but  not  hurting  too
bad.

Spring's  here,  Mike  thought  that  night,  drowsing  off  in  his  room  
while  his  mother  and
father watched  The Honeymooners  in  the  other  room.  Spring's  here  again, 
 thank  You  God,
thank  You  very  much.  And  turning  to  sleep,  sinking  down,  he  had  
heard  the  loon  call  again,
the  distance  of  its  marshes  blending  into the desire of his dreams. 
Spring was a busy time, but
it was a good time.

Following  the  rock  harvest,  Will  would  park  the  A  in  the  high  grass 
 back  of  the  house  and
drive  the  tractor  out  of  the  barn.  There  would  be  harrowing  then,  
his  father  driving the tractor,
Mike  either  riding  behind  and  holding  on  to  the  iron  seat  or  
walking  alongside,  picking  up
any  rocks  they  had  missed  and  throwing  them  aside.  Then  came  
planting,  and  following  the
planting  came  summer's  work:  hoeing  .  .  .  hoeing  .  .  .  hoeing.  His 
 mother  would  refurbish
Larry,   Moe,   and   Curly,   their   three   scarecrows,   and   Mike   would 
  help   his   father   put
mooseblowers  on  top  of  each  straw-filled head. A mooseblower was a can 
with both ends cut
off.              You  tied  a  length  of  heavily  waxed  and  rosined  
string  tightly  across  the  middle  of  the  can
and  when  the  wind  blew  through  it  a  wonderfully  spooky  sound  
resulted  —  a kind of whining
croak.  Crop-eating birds decided soon enough that Larry, Moe, and Curly were 
no threats, but
the mooseblowers always frightened them off.


Starting  in  July,  there  was  picking  as  well  as  hoeing  —  peas  and  
radishes  first,  then  the
lettuce  and  the  tomatoes  that  had  been  started  in  the  shed-boxes,  
then  the  corn  and  beans  in
August,  more  corn  and  beans  in  September,  then  the  pumpkins and the 
squash. Somewhere in
the  midst  of  all  that  came  the  new  potatoes,  and  then,  as  the  days 
 shortened  and  the  air
sharpened,  he  and  his  dad  would  take  in  the  mooseblowers  (and  
sometime  during  the  winter
they  would  disappear;  it  seemed  they  had  to  make new ones each spring). 
The day after, Will
would   call   Norman   Sadler   (who   was   as   dumb   as   his   son   
Moose   but   infinitely   more
goodhearted), and Normie would come over with his potato-digger.

For  the  next  three  weeks  all  of  them  would  work  picking  potatoes.  
In  addition  to  the
family,  Will  would  hire  three  or  four  high-school  boys  to  help  pick, 
 paying  them  a  quarter  a
barrel.  The  A-Ford  would  cruise  slowly  up  and  down  the  rows  of  the  
south  field,  the  biggest
field,  always  in  low  gear,  the  tailgate  down,  the  back  filled  with  
barrels,  each  marked  with  the
name  of  the  person  picking  into  it,  and  at  the  end  of  the  day  
Will  would  open  his  old  creased
wallet  and  pay  each  of  the  pickers  cash  money.  Mike  was  paid,  and  
so  was  his  mother;  that
money  was  theirs,  and  Will  Hanlon  never  once  asked  either  of  them  
what  they  did  with  it.
Mike  had  been  given  a  five-percent  interest  in  the  farm  when  he  was 
 five  years  old  — old
enough,  Will  had  told  him  then,  to  hold  a  hoe  and  to  tell  the  
difference  between  witchgrass
and  pea-plants.  Each  year  he  had  been  given  another  one  percent,  and 
 each  year,  on  the  day
after  Thanksgiving,  Will  would  compute  the  farm's  profits  and  deduct  
Mike's  share  .  .  .  but
Mike  never  saw  any  of  that  money.  It  went  into  his  college  account  
and  was  to  be  touched
under absolutely no other circumstances.

At  last  the  day  would  come  when  Normie  Sadler  drove  his  
potato-digger  back  home;  by

then  the  air  would  have  most  likely  turned  gray  and  cold  and  there  
would  be  frost  on  the  drift
of  orange  pumpkins  piled  against  the  side  of  the  barn.  Mike  would  
stand  in  the  dooryard,  his
nose  red,  his  dirty  hands  stuffed  into  his  jeans  pockets,  and  watch  
as  his  father  drove  first  the
tractor and then the A-Ford back into the barn. He would think:  We're getting 
ready to go to
sleep again. Spring . . . vanished. Summer . . . gone. Harvest-time . . . done. 
All that was left
now  was  the  butt  end  of  autumn:  leafless  trees,  frozen  ground,  a  
lacing  of  ice  along  the  banks
of  the  Kenduskeag.  In  the  fields,  crows  would  sometimes  land  on  the  
shoulders  of  Moe,
Larry, and Curly, and stay as long as they liked. The scarecrows were 
voiceless, threatless.

Mike  would  not  exactly  be  dismayed  by  the  thought  of  another  year  
ending  —  at nine and
ten  he  was  still  too  young  to  make  mortal  metaphors  —  because  there 
 was  plenty  to  look
forward  to:  sledding  in  McCarron  Park  (or  on  Rhulin  Hill  out  here  
in  Derrytown  if  you  were
brave,  although  that  was  mostly  for  big  kids),  ice-skating,  snowball  
fights,  snowfort  building.
There  was  time  to  think  about  snowshoeing  out  for  a  Christmas  tree  
with  his  daddy,  and  time
to  think  about  the  Nordica  downhill  skis  he  might  or  might  not  get  
for  Christmas.  Winter  was
good . . . but watching his father drive the A back into the barn

(spring vanished summer gone harvest-time done)

always  made  him  feel  sad,  the  way  the  squadrons  of  birds  heading  
south  for  the  winter
made  him  feel  sad,  or  the  way  a  certain  slant  of  light  could  
sometimes  make  him  feel  like
crying for no good reason. We're getting ready to go to sleep again . . .

It  was  not  all  school  and  chores,  chores  and  school;  Will  Hanlon  
had  told  his  wife  more

than  once  that  a  boy  needed  time  to  go  fishing,  even  if  it  wasn't  
fishing  he  was  really  doing.
When  Mike  came  home  from  school  he  first  put  his  books  on  the  TV  
in  the  parlor,  second
made   himself   some   kind   of   snack   (he   was   particularly   partial  
 to   peanut-butter-and-onion
sandwiches,  a  taste  that  made  his  mother  raise  her  hands  in  helpless 
 horror),  and  third  studied
the  note  his  father  had  left  him,  telling  Mike  where  he,  Will,  was  
and  what  Mike's  chores
were — certain rows to be weeded or picked, baskets to be carried, produce to 
be rotated, the
barn  to  be  swept,  whatever.  But  on  at  least  one  schoolday  a  week  — 
and sometimes two  —
there  would  be  no  note.  And  on  these  days  Mike  would  go  fishing,  
even  if  it  wasn't  really


fishing  he  was  doing.  Those  were  great  days  .  .  .  days  when  he  
had  no  particular  place  to  go
and consequently felt no urge to get there in a hurry.

Once  in  awhile  his  father  left  him another sort of note: 'No chores,' one 
might say. 'Go over
to  Old  Cape  &  look  at  trolley  tracks.'  Mike  would  go  over  to  the  
Old  Cape  area,  find  the
streets  with  the  tracks  still  embedded  in  them,  and  inspect  them  
closely,  marvelling  to  think
of  things  like  trains  that  had  run  right  through  the  middle  of  the  
streets.  That  night  he  and  his
father  might  talk  about  them,  and  his  dad  would  show  him  pictures  
from  his  Derry  album  of
the  trolleys  actually  running:  a  funny  pole  went  from  the  roof  of  
the  trolley  up  to an electrical
wire,  and  there  were  cigarette  ads  on  the  side.  Another  time  he  had 
 sent  Mike  to  Memorial
Park,  where  the  Standpipe  was,  to  look  at  the  birdbath,  and  once  
they  had  gone  to  the
courthouse  together  to  look  at  a  terrible  machine  that  Chief  Borton  
had  found  in  the  attic.
This  gadget  was  called  a  tramp-chair.  It  was  cast-iron,  and  there  
were  manacles  built  into  the
arms  and  legs.  Rounded  knobs  stuck  out  of  the  back  and  seat.  It  
reminded  Mike  of  a
photograph  he  had  seen  in  some  book  —  a  photograph  of  the  electric  
chair  at  Sing  Sing.
Chief Borton let Mike sit in the tramp-chair and try on the manacles.

After   the   first   ominous   novelty   of   wearing   the   manacles   wore  
 off,   Mike   looked
questioningly  at  his  father  and  Chief  Borton,  not  sure  why  this  was  
supposed  to  be  such  a
horrible  punishment  for  the  'vags'  (Borton's  word  for  them)  that  had  
drifted  into  town  in  the
twenties  and  thirties.  The  knobs  made  the  chair  a  little  
uncomfortable  to  sit  in,  sure,  and  the
manacles  on  your  wrists  and  ankles  made  it  hard  to  shift  to  a  more 
 comfortable  position,  but

—

'Well,  you're  just  a  kid,'  Chief  Borton  said,  laughing.  'What  do  you 
 weigh?  Seventy,  eighty
pounds?  Most  of  the  vags  Sheriff  Sully  posted  into  that  chair  in  
the  old  days  would  go  twice
that.  They'd  feel  a  bit  oncomfortable  after  an  hour  or  so,  really  
oncomfortable  after  two  or
three,  and  right  bad  after  four  or  five.  After  seven  or  eight  hours 
 they'd  staat  bellerin,  and
after  sixteen  or  seventeen  they'd  staat  cryin,  mostly.  And  by  the  
time  their  twenty-four-hour
tour was up, they'd be willin to swear before God and man that the next time 
they came riding
the  rods  up  New  England  way  they'd  give  Derry  a  wide  berth.  So  far 
 as  I  know,  most  of  cm
did. Twenty-four hours in the tramp-chair was a helluva persuader.'

Suddenly   there   seemed   to   be   more   knobs   in   the   chair,   
digging   more   deeply   into   his
buttocks, spine, the small of his back, even the nape of his neck. 'Can I get 
out now, please?'
he  said  politely,  and  Chief  Borton  laughed  again.  There  was  a  
moment,  one  panicked  instant
of  time,  when  Mike  thought  the  Chief  would  only  dangle  the  key  to  
the  manacles  in  front  of
Mike's eyes and say, Sure I'll let you out . . . when your twenty-four hours is 
up.

'Why did you take me there, Daddy?' he asked on the way home.
'You'll know when you're older,' Will had replied.

'You don't like Chief Borton, do you?'

'No,' his father had replied in a voice so curt that Mike hadn't dared ask any 
more.

But  Mike  enjoyed  most  of  the  places  in  Derry  his  father sent  or  
took  him  to,  and  by  the
time  Mike  was  ten  Will  had  succeeded  in  conveying  his  own  interest  
in  the  layers  of  Derry's
history  to  his  son.  Sometimes,  as  when  he  had  been  trailing  his  
fingers  over  the  slightly
pebbled  surface  of  the  stand  in  which  the  Memorial  Park  birdbath  was 
 set,  or  when  he  had
squatted  down  to  look  more  closely  at  the  trolley  tracks  which  
grooved  Mont  Street  in  the
Old  Cape,  he  would  be  struck  by  a  profound  sense  of  time  .  .  .  
time  as  something  real,  as
something  that  had  unseen  weight,  the  way  sunlight  was  supposed  to  
have  weight  (some  of
the  kids  in  school  had  laughed  when  Mrs  Greenguss  told  them  that,  
but  Mike  had  been  too
stunned  by  the  concept  to  laugh;  his  first  thought  had  been,  Light 
has  weight? Oh  my  Lord,
that's terrible!) . . time as something that would eventually bury him.

The  first  note  his  father  left  him  in  that  spring  of  1958  was  
scribbled  on  the  back  of  an

envelope  and  held  down  with  a  salt-shaker.  The  air  was  spring-warm, 
wonderfully sweet, and


his mother had  opened all the windows.   No chores,  the note read.  If you 
want to, ride your
bike out to Pasture Road. You'll see a lot of tumbled masonry and old machinery 
out in the
field on your left. Have a look around, bring back a souvenir. Don't go near 
the cellarhole!
And be back before dark. You know why.

Mike knew why, all right.

He  told  his  mother  where  he  was  going  and  she  frowned.  'Why  don't  
you  see  if  Randy
Robinson wants to go with you?'

'Yeah, okay, I'll stop by and ask him,' Mike said.

He  did,  too,  but  Randy  had  gone  up  to  Bangor  with  his  father  to  
buy  seedling  potatoes.  So
Mike  rode  his  bike  over  to  Pasture  Road  alone.  It  was  a  goodish  
ride  —  a  little  over  four
miles.  Mike  reckoned  it  was  three  o'clock  by  the  time  he  leaned  his 
 bike  against  an  old
wooden  slat-fence  on  the  left  side  of  Pasture  Road  and  climbed  into  
the  field  beyond.  He
would   have   maybe   an   hour   to   explore   and   then   he   would   
have   to   start   home   again.
Ordinarily,  his  mother  would  not  be  upset  with  him  as  long  as  he  
was  back  by  six, when she
put  dinner  on  the  table,  but  one  memorable  episode  had  taught  him  
that  wasn't  the  case  this
year.  On  that  one  occasion  when  he  had  been  late  for  dinner,  she  
had  been  nearly  hysterical.
She  took  after  him  with  a  dishrag,  whopping  him  with  it  as  he  
stood  open-mouthed in the
kitchen entryway, his wicker creel with the rainbow trout in it at his feet.

'Don't you  ever  scare  me  like  that!'  she  had  screamed.  'Don't  you  
ever!  Don't  you  ever!

Ever-ever-ever!'

Each  ever  had  been  punctuated  by  another  dishrag  swat.  Mike  had  
expected  his  father  to
step in and put a stop to it, but his father hadn't done so . . . Perhaps he 
knew that if he did she
would  turn  her  wildcat  anger  on  him  as  well.  Mike  had  learned  the  
lesson;  one  whopping
with the dishrag was all it took. Home before dark. Yes ma'am, right-o.

He  walked  across  the  field  toward  the  titanic  ruins  standing  in  the  
center.  This  was,  of
course,  the  remains  of  the  Kitchener  Ironworks  — he had ridden past it 
but had never thought
to  actually  explore  it,  and  he  had  never  heard  any  kids  saying  that 
 they  had.  Now,  stooping  to
examine  a  few  tumbled  bricks  that  had  formed  a  rough  cairn,  he  
thought  he  could  understand
why.  The  field  was  dazzlingly  bright,  washed  by  sun  from  the  spring  
sky  (occasionally,   as  a
cloud  passed  before  the  sun,  a  great  shutter  of  shadow  would  travel  
slowly  across  the  field),
but  there  was  something  spooky  about  it  all  the  same  —  a  brooding  
silence  that  was  broken
only  by  the  wind.  He  felt  like  an  explorer  who  has  found  the  last  
remnants of some fabulous
lost city.

Up  ahead  and  to  the  right,  he  saw  the  rounded  side  of  a  massive  
tile  cylinder  rising  out  of
the high field grass. He ran over to it. It was the Ironworks' main smokestack. 
He peered into
its  bore,  and  felt  a  fresh  chill  worm  up  his  spine.  It  was  big  
enough  so  he  could  have  walked
into  it  if  he  had  wanted.  But  he  didn't  want  to;  God  knew  what  
strange  guck  there  might  be,
clinging  to  the  smoke-blackened  inner  tiles,  or  what  nasty  bugs  or  
beasts  might  have  taken  up
residence  inside.  The  wind  gusted.  When  it  blew  across  the  mouth  of  
the  fallen  stack  it  made
a sound eerily like the sound of the wind vibrating the waxed strings he and 
his dad put in the
mooseblowers  every  spring.  He  stepped  back  nervously,  suddenly  thinking 
 about  the  movie
he  and  his  father  had  watched  last  night  on  the  Early Show.  It  had  
been  called  Rodan,  and
watching  it  had  seemed  like  great  fun  at  the  time,  his  father  
laughing  and  shouting  'Git  that
bird,  Mikey!'  every  time  Rodan  made  its  appearance,  Mike  shooting  
with  his  finger  until  his
mom  popped  her  head  in  and  told  them  to  hush  up  before  they  gave  
her  a  headache  with  the
noise.

It  didn't  seem  so  funny  now.  In  the  movie  Rodan  had  been  released  
from  the  bowels  of  the
earth  by  these  Japanese  coal-miners  who  had  been  digging  the  world's  
deepest  tunnel.  And
looking  into  the  black  bore  of  this  pipe,  it  was  all  too  easy  to  
imagine  that  bird  crouched  at


the  far  end,  leathery  batlike  wings  folded  over  its  back,  staring  at 
 the  small,  round  boyface
looking into the darkness, staring, staring with its gold -ringed eyes . . .

Shivering, Mike pulled back.

He  walked  aways  down  the  smokestack,  which  had  sunken  into  the  earth 
 to  half  of  its
circumference.  The  land  rose  slightly,  and  on  impulse  he  scrambled   
his  way  up  on  top.  The
stack  was  a  lot  less  scary  on  the  outside,  its  tiled  surface  
sunwarm.  He  got  to  his  feet  and
strolled  along,  holding  his  arms  out  (the  surface  was  really  too  
wide  for  him  to  need  to  worry
about  falling  off,  but  he  was  pretending  he  was  a  tightwire-walker  
in  the  circus),  liking  the
way the wind blew through his hair.

At  the  far  end  he  jumped  down  and  began  to  examine  stuff:  more  
bricks,  twisted  molds,
hunks of wood, pieces of rusty machinery.  Bring back a souvenir,   his  
father's  note had said:
he wanted a good one.

He  wandered  closer  to  the  mill's  yawning  cellarhold,  looking  at  the  
debris,  being  careful
not to cut himself on the broken glass. There was a lot of it around.

Mike  was  not  unmindful  of  the  cellarhold  and  his  father's  warning  to 
 stay  out  of  it;  neither
was  he  unmindful  of  the  death  that  had  been  dealt  out  on  this  spot 
 fifty-odd years before. He
supposed  that  if  there  was  a  haunted  place  in  Derry,  this  was  it.  
But  either  in  spite  of  that  or
because  of  it,  he  was  dete rmined  to  stay  until  he  found  something  
really  good  to  take  back
and show his father.

He  moved  slowly  and  soberly  toward  the  cellarhold,  changing  his  
course  to  parallel  its
ragged  side,  when  a  warning  voice  inside  whispered  that  he  was  
getting  too  close, that a bank
weakened  by  the  spring  rains  could  crumble  under  his  heels  and  pitch 
 him  into  that  hole,
where  God  only  knew  how  much  sharp  iron  might  be  waiting  to  impale  
him  like  a  bug,
leaving him to die a rusty twitching death.

He picked up a window-sash and tossed it aside. Here was a dipper big enough 
for a giant's
table,  its  handle  rippled  and  warped  by  some  unimaginable  flash  of  
heat.  Here  was  a  piston
too big for him to even budge, let alone lift. He stepped over it. He stepped 
over it and —

What  if  I  find  a  skull?  he thought suddenly.  The  skull  of  one  of  
the  kids  who  were  killed
here while they were hunting for chocolate Easter eggs back in 
nineteen-whenever-it-was?

He  looked  around  the  sunwashed  empty  field,  nastily  shocked  by  the  
idea. The wind blew
a  low  conch-note  in  his  ears  and  another  shadow  cruised  silently  
across  the  field,  like  the
shadow of a giant bat . . . or bird. He became aware all over again of how 
quiet it was here,
and  how  strange  the  field  looked  with  its  straggling  piles  of  
masonry  and  its  beached  iron
hulks leaning this way and that. It was as if some horrid battle had been 
fought here long ago.

Don't be such a dip, he replied uneasily to himself. They found everything 
there was to find
fifty years ago. After it  happened. And even if they didn't, some other kid — 
or grownup  —
would have found . . . the rest . . . since then. Or do you think you're the 
only person who ever
came here hunting for souvenirs?

No . . . no, I don't think that. But . . .

But  what?  that  rational  side  of  his  mind  demanded,  and  Mike  thought  
it  was  talking  just  a
little too loud, a little too fast. Even if there was still something to find, 
it would have decayed
long ago. So . . . what?

Mike  found  a  splintered  desk  drawer  in  the  weeds.  He  glanced  at  it, 
 tossed  it  aside,  and
moved  a  little  closer  to  the  cellarhold,  where  the  stuff  was  
thickest.  Surely  he  would  find
something there.

But what if there are ghosts? That's but what. What if I see hands coming over 
the edge of
that cellarhold, and what if they start to come up, kids in the remains of 
their Easter Sunday
clothes, clothes that are all rotted and torn and marked with fifty years of 
spring mud and fall
rain  and  caked  winter  snow?  Kids  with  no  heads   (he  had  heard  at  
school  that,  after  the
explosion, a woman had found the head of one of the victims in a tree in her 
back yard),  kids


with no legs, kids flayed open like codfish, kids just like me who would maybe 
come down and
play . . . down there where it's dark . . . under the leaning iron girders and 
the big old rusty
cogs . . .

Oh, stop it, for the Lord's sake!

But  a  shudder  wrenched  its  way  up  his  back  and  he  decided  it  was  
time  to  take  something

—  anything  —  and  get  the  dickens  out  of  here.  He  reached  down,  
almost  at  random,  and
came  up  with  a  gear-toothed  wheel  about  seven  niches  in  diameter.  He 
 had  a  pencil  in  his
pocket  and  he  used  it,  quickly,  to  dig  the  dirt  out  of  the  teeth.  
Then  he  slipped  his  souvenir  in
his pocket. He would go now. He would go, yes —

But  his  feet  moved  slowly  in  the  wrong  direction,  toward  the  
cellarhold,  and  he  realized
with a dismal sort of horror that he needed to look down inside. He had to see.

He  gripped  a  spongy  support-beam  leaning  out  of  the  earth  and  swayed 
 forward,  trying  to
see  down  and  inside.  He  couldn't  quite  do  it.  He  had  come  to  
within  fifteen  feet  of  the  edge,
but that was still a little too far to see the bottom of the cellarhold.

I don't care if I see the bottom or not. I'm going back now. I've got my 
souvenir. I don't
need to look down into any crummy old hole. And Daddy's note said to stay away 
from it.

But  the  unhappy,  almost  feverish  curiosity  that  had  gripped  him  would 
 not  let  go.  He
approached  the  cellarhold  step  by  queasy  step,  aware  that  as  soon  as 
 the wooden beam was
out  of  his  reach  there  would  be  no  more  grab-holds,  also  aware  that 
 the  ground  here  was
indeed  squelchy  and  crumbly.  In  places  along  the  edge  he  could  see  
depressions,  like  graves
that had fallen in, and knew that they were the sites of previous cave-ins.

Heart  thudding  in  his  chest  like  the  hard  measured  strides  of  a  
soldier's  boots,  he  reached

the edge and looked down.

Nested in the cellarhold, the bird looked up.

Mike  was  not  at  first  sure  what  he  was  seeing.  All  the  nerves  and  
pathways  in  his  body
seemed  frozen,  including  those  which  conducted  thoughts.  It  was  not  
just  the  shock  of  seeing
a  monster  bird,  a  bird  whose  breast  was  as  orange  as  a  robin's  and 
 whose  feathers  were  the
unremarkable  fluffy  gray  of  a  sparrow's  feathers;  most  of  it  was  the 
 shock  of  the  utterly
unexpected.   He   had   expected   monoliths   of   machinery   half-submerged 
 in  stagnant  puddles
and  black  mud;  instead  he  was  looking  down  into  a  giant  nest  which  
filled  the  cellarhold  from
end  to  end  and  side  to  side.  It had  been  made  out  of  enough  
timothy  grass  to  make  a  dozen
bales  of  hay,  but  this  grass  was  silvery  and  old.  The  bird  sat  in  
the  middle  of  it,  its  brightly
ringed  eyes  as  black  as  fresh,  warm  tar,  and  for  an  insane  moment  
before  his  paralysis  broke,
Mike could see himself reflected in each of them.

Then  the  ground  suddenly  began  to  shift  and  run  out  from  beneath  
his  feet.  He  heard  the
tearing sound of shallow roots giving way and realized he was sliding.

With  a  yell  he  threw  himself  backward,  pinwheeling  his  arms  for  
balance.  He  lost  it  and
thumped  heavily  to  the  littered  ground.  Some  hard,  dull  chunk  of  
metal  pressed  painfully  into
his  back,  and  he  had  time  to  think  of  the  tramp-chair  before  he  
heard  the  whirring,  explosive
sound of the bird's wings.

He  scrambled  to  his  knees,  crawled,  looked  back  over  his  shoulder,  
and  saw  it  rising  out  of
the cellarhold. Its scaly talons were a dusky orange. Its beating wings, each 
more than ten feet
across,   blew   the   scraggy   timothy   grass   this   way   and   that,   
patternlessly,   like   the   wind
generated  by  helicopter  rotors.  It  uttered  a  buzzing,  chirruping  
scream.  A  few  loose  feathers
slipped from its wings and spiraled back down into the cellarhold.

Mike gained his feet again and began to run.

He  pounded  across  the  field,  not  looking  back  now,  afraid  to  look  
back.  The  bird  did  not
look  like  Rodan,  but  he  sensed  it  was  the   spirit  of  Rodan,  risen  
from  the  cellarhold  of  the
Kitchener  Ironworks  like  a  horrible  bird-in-the-box.  He  stumbled,  went  
to  one  knee,  got  up,
and ran on.


That  weird  chirruping  buzzing  screech  came  again.  A  shadow  covered  
him  and  when  he
looked  up  he  saw  the  thing:  it  had  passed  less  than  five  feet  over 
 his  head.  Its  beak,  dirty
yellow,  opened  and  closed,  revealing  a  pink  lining  inside.  It  whirled 
 back  toward  Mike.  The
wind  it  generated  washed  across  his  face,  bringing  a  dry  unpleasant  
smell  with  it:  attic  dust,
dead antiques, rotting cushions.

He  jigged  to  his  left,  and  now  he  saw  the  fallen  smokestack  again.  
He  sprinted  for  it,
running  all-out,  his  arms  pumping  in  short  jabbing  strokes  at  his  
sides.  The  bird  screamed,
and  he  heard  its  fluttering  wings.  They  sounded  like  sails.  Something 
 slammed  into  the  back
of his head. Warm fire traced its way up the nape of his neck. He felt it 
spread as blood began
to trickle down the back of his shirt-collar.

The bird whirled around again, meaning to pick him up with its talons and carry 
him away
like a hawk with a fieldmouse. Meaning to carry him back to its nest. Meaning 
to eat him.

As  it  flew  at  him,  swooping  down,  its  black,  horribly  alive  eyes  
fixed  on  him,  Mike  cut
sharply  right.  The  bird  missed  him —  barely.  The  dusty  smell  of  its  
wings  was  overpowering,
unbearable.

Now  he  was  running  parallel  to  the  fallen  smokestack,  its  tiles  
blurring  by.  He  could  see
where  it  ended.  If  he  could  reach  the  end  and  buttonhook  to  the  
left,  get  inside,  he  might  be
safe.  He  thought  the  bird  was  too  big  to  squeeze  inside.  He  came  
very  close  to  not  making  it.
The  bird  flew  at  him  again,  pulling  up  as  it  closed  in,  its  wings  
flapping  and  pushing  air  in  a
hurricane,  its  scaly  talons  now  angled  toward  him  and  descending.  It  
screamed  again,  and  this
time Mike thought he heard triumph in its voice.

He  lowered  his  head,  put  his  arm  up,  and  rammed  straight  of rward.  
The  talons  closed  and

for  a  moment  the  bird  had  him  by  the  forearm.  The  grip  was  like  
the  clutch  of  incredibly
strong  fingers  tipped  with  tough  nails.  They  bit  like  teeth.  The  
bird's  flapping  wings  were  a
thunder  in  his  ears;  he  was  dimly  aware  of  feathers  falling  around  
him,  some  brushing  past
his  cheeks  like  phantom  kisses.  The  bird  rose  then,  and  for  just  a  
moment  Mike  felt  himself
pulled  upward,  first  straight,  then  on  tiptoe  .  .  .  and  for  one  
freezing  second  he  felt  the  toes  of
his Keds lose contact with the earth.

'Let me GO!'  he screamed at it, and twisted his arm. For a moment the talons 
held on, and

then the sleeve of his shirt ripped. He thumped back down. The bird squalled. 
Mike ran again,
brushing   through   the   thing's   tailfeathers,   gagging   at   that   dry  
 smell.   It   was   like   running
through a shower-curtain of feathers.

Still   coughing,   eyes   stinging   from   both   tears   and   whatever   
vile   dust   coated   the   bird's
feathers,  he  stumbled  into  the  fallen  smokestack.  There  was  no  
thought  now  of  what  might be
lurking  inside.  He  ran  into  the  darkness, his gasping sobs taking on a 
flat echo. He went back
perhaps  twenty  feet  and  then  turned  toward  the  bright  circle  of  
daylight.  His  chest  was  rising
and  falling  in  quick  jerks.  He  was  suddenly  aware  that,  if  he  had  
misjudged  either  the  size  of
the  bird  or  the  size  of  the  smokestack's  muzzle,  he  had  killed  
himself  as  surely  as  if  he  had
put  his  father's  shotgun  to  his  head  and  pulled  the  trigger.  There  
was  no  way  out.  This  wasn't
just a pipe; it was a blind alley. The other end of the stack was buried in the 
earth.

The  bird  squalled  again,  and  suddenly  the  light  at  the  end  of  the  
smokestack  was  blotted
out  as  it  lighted  on  the  ground  outside.  He  could  see  its  yellow  
scaly  legs,  each  as  thick  as  a
man's  cab's.  Then  it  cocked  its  head  down  and  looked  inside.  Mike  
found  himself  again
staring  into  those  hideously  bright  fresh-tar  eyes  with  their  gold  
wedding-rings  of  iris.  The
bird's beak opened and closed, opened and closed, and each time it snapped shut 
he  heard an
audible  click,  like  the  sound  you  hear  in  your  own  ears  when  you  
snap  your  teeth  together
hard. Sharp,  he thought.  Its beak is sharp. I guess I knew birds had sharp 
beaks, but I never
really thought about it until now.

It  squawked  again.  The  sound  was  so  loud  in  the  tile  throat  of  the 
 stack  that  Mike  clapped
his hands to his ears.


The bird began to force itself into the mouth of the stack.
'No!' Mike cried. 'No, you can't!'

The  light  faded  as  more  of  the  bird's  body  pressed  its  way  into  
the  stack's  bore  (Oh my
Lord,  why  didn't  I  remember  it  was  mostly  feathers?  Why  didn't  I  
remember  it  could
squeeze?).  The  light  faded  .  .  .  faded  .  .  .  was  gone.  Now  there  
was  only  an  inky  blackness,
the suffocating attic-smell of the bird, and the rustling sound of its 
feathers.

Mike fell on his knees and began to grope on the curved floor of the 
smokestack, his hands
spread  wide,  feeling.  He  found  a  piece  of  broken  tile,  its  sharp  
edges  furred  with  what  felt
like  moss.  He  cocked  his  arm  back  and  pegged  it.  There  was  a  
thump.  The  bird  uttered  its
buzzing, chirruping sound again.

'Get out of here!' Mike screamed.

There was silence . . . and then that crackly, rustling sound began again as 
the bird resumed
forcing  itself  into  the  pipe.  Mike  felt  along  the  floor,  found  other 
 pieces  of  tile,  and  began  to
throw  one  after  another.  They  thumped  and  thudded  off  the  bird  and  
then  clinked  to  the  tile
sleeve of the smokestack.

Please, God, Mike thought incoherently. Please God, phase God, please God —

It  came  to  him  that  he  ought  to  retreat  down  the  smokestack's  bore. 
 He  had  run  in  through,
what  had  been  the  stack's  base;  it  stood  to  reason  that  it  would  
narrow  as  he  backed  up.  He
could  retreat,  yes,  and  listen  to  that  low  dusty  rustle  as  the  bird 
 worked  its  way  in  after  him.
He  could  retreat,  and  if  he  was  lucky  he  might  get  beyond  the  
point  where  the  bird  could
continue to advance.

But what if the bird got stuck?

If  that  happened,  he  and  the  bird  would  die  in  here  together.  They  
would  die  in  here
together and rot in here together. In the dark.

'Please, God!'  he screamed, and was totally unaware that he had cried out 
aloud. He threw
another  piece  of  tile,  and  this  time  his  throw  was  more  powerful  —  
he felt, he told the others
much  later,  as  if  someone  were  behind  him  at  that  moment,  and  that  
someone  had given his
arm  a  tremendous  push.  This  time  there  was  no  feathery  thud;  instead 
 there  was  a  splatting
sound,  the  sound  a  kid's  hand  might  make  slapping  into  the  surface  
of  a  bowl  of  half-
solidified  Jell-O.  This  time  the  bird  screamed  not  in  anger  but  in  
real  pain.  The  tenebrous
whirr  of  its  wings  filled  the  smokestack;  stinking  air  streamed  past  
Mike  in  a  hurricane,
flapping his clothes, making him cough and gag and retreat as dust and moss 
flew.

Light  appeared  again,  gray  and  weak  at  first,  then  brightening  and  
shifting  as  the  bird
retreated  from  the  stack's  muzzle.  Mike  burst  into  tears,  fell  to  
his  knees  again,  and  began
grubbing  madly  for  more  pieces  of  tile.  Without  any  conscious  
thought,  he  ran  forward  with
both  hands  full  of  tiling  (in  this  light  he  could  see  the  pieces  
were  splotched  with  blue-gray
moss  and  lichen,  like  the  surface  of  slate  gravestones),  until  he  
was  nearly  at  the  mouth  of  the
stack. He intended to keep the bird from coming back in if he could.

It  bent  down,  cocking  its  head  the  way  a  trained  bird  on  a  perch  
will  sometimes  cock  its
head,  and  Mike  saw  where  his  last  shot  had  struck  home.  The  bird's  
right  eye  was  nearly
gone.   Instead   of   that   glittering   bubble  of  fresh  tar,  there  was  
a  crater  filled  with  blood.
Whitish-gray  goo  dripped  from  the  corner  of  the  socket  and  trickled  
along  the  side  of  the
bird's beak. Tiny parasites wriggled and squirmed in this pussy discharge.

It  saw  him  and  lunged  forward.  Mike  began  to  throw  chunks  of  tile  
at  it.  They  struck  its
head  and  beak.  It  withdrew  for  a  moment  and  then  lunged  again,  beak 
 opening,  revealing  that
pink  lining  again,  revealing  something  else  that  caused  Mike  to  
freeze  for  a  moment,  his  own
mouth  dropping  open.  The  bird's  tongue  was  silver,  its  surface  as  
crazy-cracked as the surface
of a volcanic land which has first baked and then slagged off.

And  on  this  tongue,  like  weird  tumbleweeds  that  had  taken  temporary  
root  there,  were  a

number of orange puffs.


Mike  threw  the  last  of  his  tiles  directly  into  that  gaping  maw  and  
the  bird  withdrew  again,
screaming  its  frustration,  rage,  and  pain.  For  a  moment  Mike  could  
see  its  reptilian  talons  .  .  .
Then its wings ruffled the air and it was gone.

A  moment  al ter  he  lifted  his  face  —  a  face  that  was  gray-brown  
under  the  dirt,  dust,  and

bits  of  moss  that  the  bird's  wind-machine  wings  had  blown  at  him  —  
toward  the  clicking
sound  of  its  talons  on  the  tile.  The  only  clean  places  on  Mike's  
face  were  the  tracks  that had
been washed clean by his tears.

The bird walked back and forth overhead: Tak-tak-tak -tak.

Mike  retreated  a  bit,  gathered  up  more  chunks  of  tile,  and  heaped  
them  as  close  to  the
mouth of the stack as he dared. If the thing came back, he wanted  to be able 
to fire at it from
point-blank  range.  The  light  outside  was  still  bright   —  now  that  it 
 was  May,  it  wouldn't  get
dark for a long time yet — but suppose the bird just decided to wait?

Mike swallowed, the dry sides of his throat rubbing together for a moment.
Overhead: Tak-tak -tak.

He  had  a  fine  pile  of  ammunition  now.  In  the  dim  light,  here  
beyond  the  place  where  the
angle  of  the  sun  made  a  shadow-spiral inside the pipe, it looked like a 
pile of broken crockery
swept  together  by  a  housewife.  Mike  rubbed  the  palms  of  his  dirty  
hands  along  the  sides  of
his jeans and waited to see what would happen next.

A  space  of  time  passed  before  something  did  —  whether  five  minutes  
or  twenty-five,  he
could  not  tell.  He  was  only  aware  of  the  bird  walking  back  and  
forth  overhead  like  an
insomniac pacing the floor at three in the morning.

Then  its  wings  fluttered  again.  It  landed  in  front  of  the  
smokestack's  opening.  Mike,  on  his

knees  just  behind  his  pile  of  tiling,  began  to  peg  missiles  at  it  
before  it  could  even  bend  its
head down. One of them slammed into a plated yellow leg and drew a trickle of 
blood so dark
it  seemed  almost  as  black  as  the  bird's  eyes.  Mike  screamed  in  
triumph,  the  sound  thin  and
almost lost under the bird's own enraged squawk.

'Get  out  of  here!'  Mike cried.  'I'm going to keep hitting you until you 
get out of here, I
swear to God I will!'

The bird flew up to the top of the smokestack and resumed its pacing.

Mike waited.

Finally  its  wings  ruffled  again  as  it  took  off.  Mike  waited,  
expecting  the  yellow  feet,  so
like  hen's  feet,  to  appear  again.  They  didn't.  He  waited  longer,  
convinced  it  had  to  be  some
kind  of  a  trick,  realizing  at  last  that  that  wasn't  why  he  was  
waiting  at  all.  He  was  waiting
because he was scared to go out, scared to leave the safety of this bolthole.

Never mind! Never mind stuff like that! I'm not a rabbit!

He  took  as  many  chunks  of  tile  as  he  could  handle  comfortably,  then 
 put  some  more  inside
his  shirt.  He  stepped  out  of  the  smokestack,  trying  to  look  
everywhere  at  once  and  wishing
madly  for  eyes  in  the  back  of  his  head.  He  saw  only  the  field  
stretching  ahead  and  around
him,   littered   with   the   exploded   rusting   remains   of   the   
Kitchener   Ironworks.   He   wheeled
around,  sure  he  would  see  the  bird  perched  on  the  lip  of  the  stack 
 like  a  vulture,  a  one-eyed
vulture  now,  only  wanting  the  boy  to  see  him  before  it  attacked  for 
 the  final  time,  using  that
sharp beak to jab and rip and strip.

But the bird was not there.
It was really gone.

Mike's nerve snapped.

He  uttered  a  breaking  scream  of  fear  and  ran  for  the  weather-beaten 
fence between the field
and the road, dropping the last pieces of tile from his hands. Most of the 
others fell out of his
shirt  as  the  shirt  pulled  free  of  his  belt.  He  vaulted  over  the  
fence  one -handed,  like  Roy
Rogers  showing  off  for  Dale  Evans  on  his  way  back  from  the  corral  
with  Pat  Brady  and  the
rest  of the buckaroos. He grabbed the handlebars of his bike and ran beside it 
forty feet up the


road  before  getting  on.  Then  he  pedaled  madly,  not  daring  to  look  
back,  not  daring  to  slow
down,  until  he  reached  the  intersection  of  Pasture  Road  and  Outer  
Main  Street,  where  there
were lots of cars passing back and forth.

When  he  got  home,  his  father  was  changing  the  plugs  on  the  tractor. 
 Will  observed  that
Mike  looked  powerful  musty  and  dusty.  Mike  hesitated  for  just  a  
split  second  and  then  told
his  father  that  he'd  taken  a  tumble  from  his  bike  on  the  way  home, 
 swerving  to  avoid  a
pothole.

'Did you break anything, Mikey?' Will asked, observing his son a little more 
carefully.
'No, sir.'

'Sprains?'
'Huh-uh.'

'Sure?' * Mike nodded.

'Did you pick yourself up a souvenir?'

Mike  reached  into  his  pocket  and  found  the  gear-wheel.  He  showed  it  
to  his  father, who
looked  at  it  briefly  and  then  plucked  a  tiny  crumb  of  tiling  from  
the  pad  of  flesh  just  below
Mike's thumb. He seemed more interested in this.

'From that old smokestack?' Will asked.
Mike nodded.

'You go inside there?'

Mike nodded again.

'See  anything  in  there?'  Will  asked,  and  then,  as  if  to  make  a  
joke  of  the  question  (which
hadn't sounded like a joke at all), he added: 'Buried treasure?'

Smiling a little, Mike shook his head.

'Well,    don't    tell    your    mother    you    was    muckin    about    
in    there,'    Will    said.
'She'd   shoot   me   first   and   you   second.'   He   looked   even   more  
 closely   at   his   son.
'Mikey, are you all right?'

'Huh?'

'You look a little peaky around the eyes.'

'I  guess  I  might  be  a  little  tired,'  Mike  said.  'It's  eight  or  ten 
 miles  there  and  back  again,
don't forget. You want some help with the tractor, Daddy?'

'No, I'm about done screwing it up for this week. You go on in and wash up.'

Mike started away, and then his father called to him once more. Mike looked 
back.

'I  don't  want  you  going  around  that  place  again,'  he  said,  'at  
least  not  until  all  this  trouble  is
cleared  up  and  they  catch  the  man  who's  doing  it  .  .  .  you  didn't 
 see  anybody  out  there,  did
you? No one chased you, or hollered you down?'

'I didn't see any people at all,' Mike said.

Will   nodded   and   lit   a   cigarette.   'I   think   I   was   wrong   to  
 send   you   there.   Old
places like that . . . sometimes they can be dangerous.'

Their eyes locked briefly.

'Okay, Daddy,' Mike said. 'I don't want to go back anyway. It was a little 
spooky.'

Will    nodded    again.    'Less    said    the    better,    I    reckon.    
You    go    and    get    cleaned
up now. And tell her to put on three or four extra sausages.'

Mike did.

6

Never  mind  that  now,  Mike  Hanlon  thought,  looking  at  the  grooves  
which  went  up  to  the
concrete  edge  of  the  Canal  and  stopped  there.  Never  mind  that,  it  
might  just  have  been  a
dream anyhow, and —


There were splotches of dried blood on the lip of the Canal.

Mike  looked  at  these,  and  then  he  looked  down  into  the  Canal.  Black 
 water  flowed
smoothly  past.  Runners  of  dirty  yellow  foam  clung  to  the  Canal's  
sides,  sometimes  breaking
free  to  flow  downstream  in  lazy  loops  and  curves.  For  a  moment  —  
just  a  moment  — two
clots  of  this  foam  came  together  and  seemed to form a face, a kid's 
face, its eyes turned up in
an avatar of terror and agony.

Mike's breath caught, as if on a thorn.

The  foam  broke  apart,  became  meaningless  again,  and  at  that  moment  
there  was  a  loud
splash  on  his  right.  Mike  snapped  his  head  around,  shrinking  back  a  
little,  and  for  a  moment
he   believed   he   saw   something   in   the   shadows   of   the   outflow  
 tunnel   where   the   Canal
resurfaced after its course under downtown.

Then it was gone.

Suddenly,  cold  and  shuddering,  he  dug  in  his  pocket  for  the  knife  
he  had  found  in  the
grass. He threw it into the Canal. There was a small splash, a ripple that 
began as a circle and
was then tugged into the shape of an arrowhead by the current . . . then 
nothing.

Nothing  except  the  fear  that  was  suddenly  suffocating  him  and  the  
deadly  certainty  that
there was something near, something watching him, gauging its chances, biding 
its time.

He  turned,  meaning  to  walk  back  to  his  bike  —  to run would be to 
dignify those fears and
undignify  himself  —   and  then  that  splashing  sound  came  again.  It  
was  a  lot  louder  this
second  time.  So  much  for  dignity.  Suddenly  he  was  running  as  fast  
as  he  could,  beating  his
buns  for  the  gate  and  his  bike,  jamming  the  kickstand  up  with  one  
heel  and  pedaling  for  the
street as fast as he could. That sea-smell was all at once too thick . . .  
much too  thick. It was
everywhere.  And  the  water  dripping  from  the  wet  branches  of  the  
trees  seemed  much  too
loud.

Something was coming. He heard dragging, lurching footsteps in the grass.

He  stood  on  the  pedals,  giving  it  everything,  and  shot  out  onto  
Main  Street  without  looking
back.  He  headed  for  home  as  fast  as  he  could,  wondering  what  in  
hell  had  possessed  him  to
come in the first place . . . what had drawn him.

And  then he  tried  to  think  about  the  chores,  the  whole  chores,  and  
nothing  but  the  chores.

After awhile he actually succeeded.

And  when  he  saw  the  headline  in  the  paper  the  next  day  (MISSING  
BOY  PROMPTS   NEW
FEARS),  he  thought  about  the  pocket  knife  he  had  thrown into the Canal 
 —  the pocket knife
with  the  initials  EC  scratched  on  the  side.  He  thought  about  the  
blood  he  had  seen  on  the
grass.

And he thought about those grooves which stopped at the edge of the Canal.


C H A P T E R  7

The Dam in the Barrens

1

Seen from the expressway at quarter to five in the morning, Boston seems a city 
of the dead
brooding  over  some  tragedy  in  its  past  — a plague, perhaps, or a curse. 
The smell of salt,
heavy and cloying, comes off the ocean. Runners of early-morning fog obscure 
much of what
movement would be seen otherwise.

Driving north along Storrow Drive, sitting behind the wheel of the black '84 
Cadillac he
picked up from Butch Carrington at Cape Cod Limousine, Eddie Kaspbrak thinks 
you can
feel this city's age; perhaps you can get that feeling of age nowhere else in 
America but here.
Boston is a sprat compared with London, an infant compared with Rome, but by 
American
standards at least it is old, old. It kept its place on these low hills three 
hundred years ago,
when the Tea and Stamp Taxes were unthought of, Paul Revere and Patrick Henry 
unborn.

Its  age,  its  silence,  and  the  foggy  smell  of  the  sea  —  all  of  
these  things  make  Eddie
nervous.  When  Eddie's  nervous  he  reaches  for  his  aspirator.  He  sticks 
 it  in  his  mouth and
triggers a cloud of revivifying spray down his throat.

There are a few people in the streets he's passing, and a pedestrian or two on 
the walkways
of the overpasses  — they give lie to the impression that he has somehow 
wandered into a
Lovecrafty tale of doomed cities, ancient evils, and monsters with 
unpronounceable names.
Here,  ganged  around  a  bus  stop  with  a  sign  reading  KENMORE SQUARE 
CITY  CENTER, he sees
waitresses, nurses, city employees, their faces naked and puffed with sleep.

That's right,  Eddie  thinks,  now  passing  under  a  sign  which  reads  
TOBIN  BRIDGE.  That's
right, stick to the buses. Forget the subways. The subways are a bad idea; I 
wouldn't go down
there if I were you. Not down below. Not in the tunnels.

This is a bad thought to have; if he doesn't get rid of it he will soon be 
using the aspirator
again. He's glad for the heavier traffic on the Tobin Bridge. He passes a 
monument works.
Painted on the brick side is a slightly unsettling admonishment:

SLOW DOWN! WE CAN WAIT!

Here  is  a  green  reflectorized  sign  which  reads   TO  95  MAINE,  N.H.,  
ALL NORTHERN NEW
ENGLAND  POINTS.  He  looks  at  it  and  suddenly  a  bone-deep  shudder  
wracks  his  body.  His
hands momentarily weld themselves to the wheel of the Cadillac. He would like 
to believe it is
the onset of some sickness, a virus or perhaps one of his mother's 'phantom 
fevers,' but he
knows better. It is the city behind him, poised silently on the straight-edge 
that runs between
day and night, and what that sign promises ahead of him. He's sick, all right, 
no doubt about
that, but it's not a virus or a phantom fever. He has been poisoned by his own 
memories.

I'm scared,  Eddie thinks.  That was always what was at the bottom of it. Just 
being scared.

That  was  everything.  But  in  the  end  I  think  we  turned  that  around  
somehow.  We  used  it.  But
how?

He can't remember. He wonders if any of the others can. For all their sakes he 
certainly
hopes so.

A truck drones by on his left. Eddie has still got his lights on and now he 
hits his brights
momentarily as the truck draws safely ahead. He does this without thinking. It 
has become an
automatic function, just part of driving for a living. The unseen driver in the 
truck flashes his
running  lights  in  return,  quickly,  twice,  thanking  Eddie  for  his  
courtesy.  If only everything


could  be  that  simple  and  that  clear,  he  thinks.  He  follows  the  
signs  to  I-95. The northbound
traffic is light, although he observes that the southbound lanes into the city 
are starting to fill
up,  even  at  this  early  hour.  Eddie  floats  the  big  car  along,  
pre-guessing  most  of  the
directional signs and getting into the correct lane long before he has to. It 
has been years —
literally years — since he has guessed wrong enough to be swept past an exit he 
wanted. He
makes his lane-choices as automatically as he flashed 'okay to cut back in' to 
the trucker, as
automatically as he once found his way through the tangle of paths in the Derry 
Barrens. The
fact           that  he  has  never  before  in  his  life  driven  out  of  
downtown  Boston,  one  of the  most
confusing cities in America to drive in, does not seem to matter much at all.

He suddenly remembers something else about that summer, something Bill said to 
him one
day: 'Y-You've g-got a c-c-cuh-hompass in your head, E-E-Eddie.'

How  that  had pleased him! It pleases him again as the '84 'Dorado shoots back 
onto the
turnpike. He slides the limo's speed up to a cop-safe fifty-seven miles an hour 
and finds some
quiet music on the radio. He supposes he would have died for Bill back then, if 
that had been
required; if Bill had asked him, Eddie would simply have responded: 'Sure, Big 
Bill . . . you
got a time in mind yet?'

Eddie laughs at this — not much of a sound, just a snort, but the sound of it 
startles him
into a real laugh. He laughs seldom these days, and he certainly did not expect 
to find many
chucks (Richie's word, meaning  chuckles, as  in  'You  had  any  good  chucks  
today,  Eds?')  on
this black pilgrimage. But, he supposes, if God is dirty-mean enough to curse 
the faithful with
what they want most in life, He's maybe quirky enough to deal you a good chuck 
or two along
the way.

'Had any good chucks lately, Eds?' he says out loud, and laughs again. Man, he 
had hated
it when Richie called him Eds . . . but he had sort of liked it, too. The way 
he thought Ben
Hanscom got to like Richie calling him Haystack. It was something . . . like a 
secret name. A
secret  identity. A  way  to  be  people  that  had  nothing  to  do  with  
their  parents'  fears,  hopes,
constant  demands.  Richie  couldn't  do  his  beloved  Voices  for  shit,  but 
 maybe  he  did  know
how important it was for creeps like them to sometimes be different people .

Eddie  glances  at  the  change  lined  up  neatly  on  the  'Dorado's  
dashboard  —  lining  up  the

change  is  another  of  those  automatic  tricks  of  the  trade.  When  the  
tollbooths  come  up,  you
never  want  to  have  to  dig  for  your  silver,  never  want  to  find  that 
 you've  gotten  in  an
automatic-toll lane with the wrong change.

Among  the  coins  are  two  or  three  Susan  B.  Anthony  silver  dollars.  
They  are  coins, he
reflects,  that  you  probably  only  find  in  the  pockets  of  chauffeurs  
and  taxi-drivers  from  the
New York area these days, just as the only place you are apt to see a lot of 
two-dollar bills is
at  a  race-track  payoff  window.  He  always  keeps  a  few  on  hand  
because  the  robot  tolltaker
baskets on the George Washington and the Triboro Bridges take them.

Another  of  those  lights  suddenly  comes  on  in  his  head:  silver  
dollars.  Not  these  fake
copper  sandwiches  but  real  silver  dollars,  with  Lady  Liberty  dressed  
in  her  gauzy  robes
stamped upon them. Ben Hanscom's silver dollars. Yes, but wasn't it Bill who 
once used one
of those silver cartwheels to save their lives? He is not quite sure of this, 
is, in fact, not quite
sure of anything . . . or is it just that he doesn't want to remember?

It was dark in there, he thinks suddenly. I remember that much. It was dark
in there.

Boston is well behind him now and the fog is starting to bum off. Ahead is 
MAINE, N.H., ALL
NORTHERN  NEW  ENGLAND  POINTS.  Derry  is  ahead,  and  there  is  something  
in  Derry  which
should be twenty-seven years dead and yet is somehow not. Something with as 
many faces as
Lon  Chaney.  But  what  is it  really.' Didn't they see it at the end as it 
really was, with all its
masks cast aside?

Ah, he can remember so much . . . but not enough.


He remembers that he loved Bill Denbrough; he remembers that well enough. Bill 
never
made  fun  of  his  asthma.  Bill  never  called  him  little  sissy  queerboy. 
 He  loved  Bill  like  he
would have loved a big brother . . . or a  father. Bill knew stuff to do. 
Places to go. Things to
see. Bill was never up against it. When you ran with Bill you ran to beat the 
devil and you
laughed . . . but you hardly ever ran out of breath. And hardly ever running 
out of breath was
great, so fucking great, Eddie would tell the world. When you ran with Big 
Bill, you got your
chucks every day.

'Sure, kid, EV-ery day,' he says in a Richie Tozier Voice, and laughs again.

It had been Bill's idea to make the dam in the Barrens, and it was, in a way, 
the dam that
had brought them all together. Ben Hanscom had been the one to show them how 
the dam
could be built  —  and they had built it so well that they'd gotten in a lot of 
trouble with Mr
Nell, the cop on the beat — but it had been Bill's idea. And although all of 
them except Richie
had seen very odd things  — frightening things — in Derry since the turn of the 
year, it had
been Bill who had first found the courage to say something out loud.

That dam.

That damn dam.

He remembered Victor Cris: 'Ta-ta, boys. It was a real baby dam, believe me. 
You're better
off without it.'

A day later, Ben Hanscom was grinning at them, saying:

'We could

'We could flood

'We could flood out the

2

whole Barrens, if we wanted to.'

Bill  and  Eddie  looked  at  Ben  doubtfully,  and  then  at  the  stuff  Ben  
had  brought  along  with
him:  some  boards  (scrounged  from  Mr  McKibbon's  back  yard,  but  that  
was  okay,  since  Mr
McKibbon had probably scavenged them from someone else's), a sledgehammer, a 
shovel.

'I  dunno,'  Eddie  said,  glancing  at  Bill.  'When  we  tried  yesterday,  
it  didn't  work  very  good.

The current kept washing our sticks away.'

'This'll work,' Ben said. He also looked to Bill for the final decision.

'Well,  let's  g-give it   a   t-t-try,'  Bill  said.  'I  c-called  
R-R-R-Richie  Tozier  this  m-morning.
He's  g-gonna  be  oh-over  Mater,  he  s-said.  Maybe  him  and  
Stuh-huh-hanley  will  want  to  h-
help.'

'Stanley who?' Ben asked.

'Uris,'  Eddie  said.  He  was  still  looking  cautiously  at  Bill,  who  
seemed  somehow  different
today — quieter, less enthusiastic about the idea of the dam. Bill looked pale 
today. Distant.

'Stanley Uris? I guess I don't know him. Does he go to Derry Elementary?'

'He's our age but he just finished the fourth  grade,' Eddie said. 'He started 
school a year late
because  he  was  sick  a  lot  when  he  was  a  little  kid.  You  think  you 
took chong yesterday, you
just oughtta be glad you're not Stan. Someone's always rackin Stan to the dogs 
an back.'

'He's   Juh-juh-hooish,'   Bill   said.   'Luh-lots   of   k-kids   don't   
luh-hike   him   because   h-he's
Jewish.'

'Oh  yeah?'  Ben  asked,  impressed.  'Jewish,  huh?'  He  paused  and  then  
said  carefully:  'Is  that

like being Turkish, or is it more like, you know, Egyptian?'

'I  g-guess  it's  mo re  like  Tur-hur-hurkish,' Bill said. He picked up one 
of the boards Ben had
brought and looked at it. It was about six feet long and three feet wide. 'My 
d-d-dad says most
J-Jews have big nuh-noses and lots of m-m-money, but Stuh-Stuh-Stuh — '


'But Sta n's got a regular nose and he's always broke,' Eddie said.
'Yeah,' Bill said, and broke into a real grin for the first time that day.
Ben grinned.

Eddie grinned.

Bill  tossed  the  board  aside,  got  up  and  brushed  off  the  seat  of  
his  jeans.  He  walked to the
edge  of  the  stream  and  the  other  two  boys  joined  him.  Bill  shoved  
his  hands  in  his  back
pockets  and  sighed  deeply.  Eddie  was  sure  Bill  was  going  to  say  
something  serious.  He
looked   from   Eddie   to   Ben   and   then   back   to   Eddie   again,   
not   smiling   now.  Eddie  was
suddenly afraid.

But all Bill said then was, 'You got your ah-ah-aspirator, E-Eddie?'
Eddie slapped his pocket. 'I'm loaded for bear.'

'Say, how'd it work with the chocolate milk?' Ben asked.

Eddie  laughed.  'Worked  great!'  he  said.  He  and  Ben  broke  up  while  
Bill  looked  at  them,
smiling but puzzled. Eddie explained and Bill nodded, grinning again.

'E-E-Eddie's  muh-hum  is  w-w-worried  that  h-he's  g-gonna  break  and  
sh-she wuh-hon't be
able to g-get a re-re-refund.'

Eddie snorted and made as if to push him into the stream.

'Watch  it,  fuckface,'  Bill  said,  sounding  uncannily  like  Henry  Bowers. 
 'I'll  twist  your  head
so far around you'll be able to watch when you wipe yourself.'

Ben  collapsed,  shrieking  with  laughter.  Bill  glanced  at  him,  still  
smiling,  hands  still  in  the
back  pockets  of  his  jeans,  smiling,  yeah,  but  a  little  distant  
again,  a  little  vague.  He  looked  at
Eddie and then cocked his head toward Ben.

'Kid's suh-suh-soft,' he said.

'Yeah,'  Eddie  agreed,  but  he  felt  somehow  that  they  were  only  going  
through  the  motions
of  having  a  good  time.  Something  was  on  Bill's  mind.  He  supposed  
Bill  would  spill  it  when
he was ready; the question was, did Eddie want to hear what it was? 'Kid's 
mentally retarded.'

'Retreaded,' Ben said, still giggling.

'Y-You  g-g-gonna  sh-show  us  how  to  b-build  a  dam  or  a-are  you  
g-g-gonna si-hit there on
your b-big c-c-can all d-day?'

Ben  got  to  his  feet  again.  He  looked  first  at  the  stream,  flowing  
past  them  at  moderate
speed.  The  Kenduskeag  was  not  terribly  wide  this  far  up  in  the  
Barrens,  but  it  had  defeated
them  yesterday  just  the  same.  Neither  Eddie  nor  Bill  had  been  able  
to  figure  out  how  to  get  a
foothold  on  the  current.  But  Ben  was  smiling,  the  smile  of  one  who  
contemplates  doing
something  new  .  .  .  something  that  will  be  fun  but  not  very  hard.  
Eddie  thought: He knows
how    — I really think he does.

'Okay,'  he  said.  'You  guys  want  to  take  your  shoes  off,  because  
you're  gonna  get  your  little
footsies wet.'

The mind-mother  in  Eddie's  head  spoke  up  at  once,  her  voice  as  stern 
 and  commanding  as
the voice of a traffic cop:  Don't you dare do it, Eddie! Don't you dare! Wet 
feet, that's one
way — one of the thousands of ways — that colds start, and colds lead to 
pneumonia, so don't
you do it!

Bill  and  Ben  were  sitting  on  the  bank,  pulling  off  their  sneakers  
and  socks.  Ben  was  fussily

rolling  up  the  legs  of  his  jeans.  Bill  looked  up  at  Eddie.  His  
eyes  were  clear  and  warm,
sympathetic.  Eddie  was  suddenly  sure  Big  Bill  knew  exactly  what  he  
had  been  thinking,  and
he was ashamed.

'Y-You c-c-comin?'

'Yeah,  sure,'  Eddie  said.  He  sat  down  on  the  bank  and  undressed  his 
 feet  while  his  mother
ranted  inside  his  head  .  .  .  but  her  voice  was  growing  steadily  
more  distant  and  echoey, he
was relieved to note, as if someone had stuck a heavy fishhook through the back 
of her blouse
and was now reeling her away from him down a very long corridor.


3

It was one of those perfect summer days which, in a world where everything was 
on track and
on  the  beam,  you  would  never  forget.  A  moderate  breeze  kept  the  
worst  of  the  mosquitoes
and   blackflies   away.   The   sky   was   a   bright,   crisp   blue.   
Temperatures   were   in   the   low
seventies.  Birds  sang  and  went  about  their  birdy-business  in  the  
bushes  and  second -growth
trees.  Eddie  had  to  use  his  aspirator  once,  and  then  his  chest  
lightened  and  his  throat  seemed
to  widen  magically  to  the  size  of  a  freeway.  He  spent  the  rest  of  
the  morning  with  it  stuffed
forgotten into his back pocket.

Ben  Hanscom,  who  had  seemed  so  timid  and  unsure  the  day  before,  
became  a  confident
general  once  he  was  fully  involved  in  the  actual  construction  of  the 
 dam.  Every  now  and  then
he  would  climb  the  bank  and  stand  there  with  his  muddy  hands  on  
his  hips,  looking  at  the
work  in  progress  and  muttering  to  himself.  Sometimes  he  would  run  a  
hand  through  his  hair,
and by eleven o'clock it was standing up in crazy, comical spikes.

Eddie  felt  uncertainty  at  first,  then  a  sense  of  glee,  and  finally  
an  entirely  new  feeling  —
one  that  was  at  the  same  time  weird,  terrifying,  and  exhilarating.  
It  was  a  feeling  so  alien  to
his  usual  state  of  being  that  he  was  not  able  to  put  a  name  to  
it  until  that  night,  lying  in  bed
and  looking  at  the  ceiling  and  replaying  the  day.  Power.  That  was  
what that feeling had been.
Power.  It  was  going  to  work,  by  God,  and  it  was  going  to  work  
better  than  he  and  Bill   —
maybe even Ben himself — had dreamed it could.

He  could  see  Bill  getting  involved,  too —  only  a  little  at  first,  
still  mulling  over  whatever it
was  he  had  on  his  mind,  and  then,  bit  by  bit,  committing  himself  
fully.  Once  or  twice  he
clapped  Ben  on  one  meaty  shoulder  and  told  him  he  was  unbelievable.  
Ben  flushed  with
pleasure each time.

Ben got Eddie and Bill to set one of the boards across the stream and hold it 
as he used the
sledgehammer  to  seat  it  in  the  streambed.  There  —  it's  in,  but  
you'll  have  to  hold  it  or  the
current'll  just  pull  it  loose,'  he  told  Eddie,  so  Eddie  stood  in  
the  middle  of  the  stream  holding
the board while water sluiced over its top and made his hands into wavering 
starfish shapes.

Ben  and  Bill  located  a  second  board  two  feet  downstream  of  the  
first.  Ben  used  the  sledge
again  to  seat  it  and  Bill  held  it  while  Ben  began  to  fill  up  the  
space  between  the  two  boards
with  sandy  earth  from  the  stream-bank.  At  first  it  only  washed  away  
around  the  ends  of  the
boards  in  gritty  clouds  and  Eddie  didn't  think  it  was  going  to  work 
 at  all,  but  when  Ben  began
adding  rocks  and  muddy  gook  from  the  streambed,  the  clouds  of  
escaping  silt  began  to
diminish.  In  less  than  twenty  minutes  he  had  created  a  heaped  brown  
canal  of  earth  and
stones  between  the  two  boards  in  the  middle  of  the  stream.  To  Eddie 
 it  looked  like  an  optical
illusion.

'If we had real cement . . . instead of just . . . mud and rocks, they'd have 
to move the whole
city . . . over to the Old Cape side by the middle of next week,' Ben said, 
slinging the shovel
aside  at  last  and  sitting  on  the  bank  until  he  got  his  breath  
back.  Bill  and  Eddie  laughed,  and
Ben  grinned  at  them.  When  he  grinned,  there  was  a  ghost  of  the  
handsome  man  he  would
become in the lines of his face. Water had begun to pile up behind the upstream 
board now.

Eddie asked what they were going to do about the water escaping around the 
sides.
'Let it go. It doesn't matter.'

'It doesn't?'

'Nope.'

'Why not?'

'I can't explain exactly. You gotta let some out, though.'
'How do you know?'


Ben shrugged. I just do, the shrug said, and Eddie was silenced.

When he was rested, Ben  got a third board  — the thickest of the four or five 
he had carried
laboriously  across  town  to  the  Barrens  —  and  placed  it  carefully  
against  the  downstream
board,  wedging  one  end  firmly  into  the  streambed  and  socking  the  
other  against  the  board
Bill had been holding, creating the strut he had put in his little drawing the 
day before.

'Okay,' he said, standing back. He grinned at them. 'You guys should be able to 
let go now.
The  gook  in  between  the  two  boards  will  take  most  of  the  water  
pressure.  The  strut will take
the rest.'

'Won't the water wash it away?' Eddie asked.

'Nope. The water is just gonna push it in deeper.'

'And if you're ruh-ruh-wrong, we g-get to k-k-kill yuh-you,' Bill said.
'That's cool,' Ben said amiably.

Bill  and  Eddie  stepped  back.  The  two  boards  that  formed  the  basis  
of  the  dam  creaked  a
little, tilted a little . . . and that was all.

'Hot shit!' Eddie screamed, excited.
'It's g-g-great,' Bill said, grinning.
'Yeah,' Ben said. 'Let's eat.'

4

They  sat  on  the  bank  and  ate,  not  talking  much,  watching  the  water  
stack  up  behind  the  dam
and  sluice  around  the  ends  of  the  boards.  They  had  already  done  
something  to  the  geography
of  the  streambanks,  Eddie  saw:  the  diverted  current  was  cutting  
scalloped  hollows  into them.
As  he  watched,  the  new  course  of  the  stream  undercut  the  bank  
enough  on  the  far  side  to
cause a small avalanche.

Upstream  of  the  dam  the  water  formed  a  roughly  circular  pool,  and  
at  one  place  it  had
actually  overflowed  the  bank.  Bright,  reflecting  rills  ran  off  into  
the  grass  and  the  underbrush.
Eddie  slowly  began  to  realize  what  Ben  had  known  from  the  first:  
the  dam  was  already  built.
The  gaps  between  the  boards  and  the  banks  were  sluiceways.  Ben  had  
not  been  able  to  tell
Eddie this because he did not know the word. Above the boards the Kenduskeag 
had taken on
a  swelled  look.  The  chuckling  sound  of  shallow  water  babbling  its  
way  over  stones  and
gravel  was  now  gone;  all  the  stones  upstream  of  the  dam  were  
underwater.  Every  now  and
then  more  sod  and  dirt,  undercut  by  the  widening  stream,  would  fall  
into  the  water  with  a
splash.

Downstream  of  the  dam  the  watercourse  was  nearly  empty;  thin  trickles 
 ran  restlessly
down  its  center,  but  that  was  about  all.  Stones  which  had  been  
underwater  for  God knew how
long  were  drying  in  the  sun.  Eddie  looked  at  these  drying  stones  
with  mild  wonder  .  .  .  and
that  weird  other  feeling.  They  had  done  this.  They.  He  saw  a  frog  
hopping  along  and  thought
maybe old Mr Froggy was wondering just where the water had gone. Eddie laughed 
out loud.

Ben  was  neatly  stowing  his  empty  wrappers  in  the  lunchbag  he  had  
brought.  Both  Eddie

and  Bill  had  been  amazed  by  the  size  of  the  repast  Ben  had  laid  
out  with  businesslike
efficiency:  two  PB&J  sandwiches,  one  baloney  sandwich,  a  hardcooked  
egg  (complete  with  a
pinch      of  salt  twisted  up  in  a  small  piece  of  waxed  paper),  two  
fig-bars, three large chocolate
chip cookies, and a Ring-Ding.

'What did your ma say when she saw how bad you got racked?' Eddie asked him.

'Hmmmm?'  Ben  looked  up  from  the  spreading  pool  of  water  behind  the  
dam  and  belched
gently  against  the  back  of  his  hand.  'Oh!  Well,  I  knew  she'd  be  
grocery-shopping yesterday
afternoon,  so  I  was  able  to  beat  her  home.  I  took  a  bath  and  
washed  my  hair.  Then  I  threw
away  the  jeans  and  the  sweatshirt  I  was  wearing.  I  don't  know  if  
she'll  notice  they're  gone  or


not.  Probably  not  the  sweatshirt,  I  got  lots  of  sweatshirts,  but  I  
guess  I  ought  to  buy  myself  a
new pair of jeans before she gets nosing through my drawers.'

The  thought  of  wasting  his  money  on  such  a  nonessential  item  cast  
momentary  gloom
across Ben's face.

'W-W-What about the way yuh-you w-were b-bruised up?'

'I  told  her  I  was  so  excited  to  be  out  of  school  that  I  ran  out  
the  door  and  fell  down  the
steps,'  Ben  said,  and  looked  both  amazed  and  a  little  hurt  when  
Eddie  and  Bill  began
laughing.  Bill,  who  had  been  chowing  up  a  piece  of  his  mother's  
devil's  food  cake,  blew  out  a
brown  jet  of  crumbs  and  then  had  a  coughing  fit.  Eddie,  still  
howling,  clapped  him  on  the
back.

'Well,  I  almost  did  fall  down  the  steps,'  Ben  said.  'Only  it  was  
because  Victor  Criss  pushed
me, not because I was running.'

'I'd  be  as  h-hot  as  a  tuh-tuh-tamale  in  a  swuh-heatshirt like that,' 
Bill said, finishing the last
bite of his cake.

Ben  hesitated.  For  a  moment  it  seemed  he  would  say  nothing.  'It's  
better  when  you're  fat,'
he said finally. 'Sweatshirts, I mean.'

'Because of your gut?' Eddie asked.

Bill snorted. 'Because of your tih-tih-tih — '
'Yeah, my tits. So what?'

'Yeah,' Bill said mildly. 'S-So what?'

There  was  a  moment  of  awkward  silence  and  then  Eddie  said,  'Look  
how  dark  the  water's
getting when it goes around that side of the dam.'

'Oh, cripes!' Ben shot to his feet. 'Current's pulling out the fill! Jeez, I 
wish we had cement!'

The  damage  was  quickly  repaired,  but  even  Eddie  could  see  what  would 
 happen  without
someone  there  to  almost  constantly  shovel  in  fresh  fill:  erosion  
would  eventually  cause  the
upstream  board  to  collapse  against  the  downstream  board,  and  then  
everything  would  fall
over.

'We can shore up the sides,' Ben said. That won't stop the erosion, but it'll 
slow it down.'
'If we use sand and mud, won't it just go on washing away?' Eddie asked.

'We'll use chunks of sod.'

Bill  nodded,  smiled,  and  made  an  O  with  the  thumb  and  forefinger  of 
 his  right  hand.  'Let's
g-g-go. I'll d-dig em and y-you sh-show me where to p-put em ih-in, Big Ben.'

From  behind  them  a  stridently  cheery  voice  called:  'My  Gawd,  someone  
 put  the  Y-pool
down in the Barrens, bellybutton lint and all!'

Eddie  turned,  noticing  the  way  Ben  tightened  up  at  the  sound  of  a  
strange  voice,  the  way
his  lips  thinned.  Standing  above  them  and  aways  upstream,  on  the  
path  Ben  had  crossed  the
day before, were Richie Tozier and Stanley Uris.

Richie  came  bopping  down  to  the  stream,  glanced  at  Ben  with  some  
interest,  and  then
pinched Eddie's check.

'Don't do that! I hate it when you do that, Richie.'

'Ah, you love it, Eds,' Richie said, and beamed at him. 'So what do you say? 
You havin any
good chucks, or what?'

5

The  five  of  them  knocked  off  around  four  o'clock.  They  sat  much  
higher  on  the  bank  — the
place  where  Bill,  Ben,  and  Eddie  had  eaten  lunch  was  now  underwater  
— and stared down at
their  handiwork.  Even  Ben  found  it  a  little  difficult  to  believe.  He 
 felt  a  sense  of  tired
accomplishment  which  was  mixed  with  uneasy  fright.  He  found  himself  
thinking  of  Fantasia,


and  how  Mickey  Mouse  had  known  enough  to  get  the  brooms  started  .  
.  .  but  not  enough to
make them stop.

'Fucking incredible,' Richie Tozier said softly, and pushed his glasses up on 
his nose.

Eddie  glanced  over  at  him,  but  Richie  was  not  doing  one  of  his  
numbers  now;  his  face  was
thoughtful, almost solemn.

On  the  far  side  of  the  stream,  where  the  land  first  rose  and  then  
tilted  shallowly  downhill,

they  had  created  a  new  piece  of  bogland.  Bracken  and  holly  bushes  
stood  in  a  foot  of  water.
Even  as  they  sat  here  they  could  see  the  bog  sending  out  fresh  
pseudopods,  spreading  steadily
westward.  Behind  the  dam  the  Kenduskeag,  shallow  and  harmless  just  
this  morning,  had
become  a still, swollen band of water.

By  two  o'clock  the  widening  pool  behind  the  dam  had  taken  so  much  
embankment that the
spillways  had  grown  almost  to  the  size  of  rivers  themselves.  Everyone 
 but  Ben  had  gone  on
an   emergency   expedition   to   the   dump   in   search   of   more   
materials.   Ben   stuck   around,
methodically  sodding  up  leaks.  The  scavengers  had  returned  not  only  
with  boards  but  with
four  bald  tires,  the  rusty door  of  a  1949  Hudson  Hornet,  and  a  big  
piece  of  corrugated-steel
siding.  Under  Ben's  leadership  they  had  built  two  wings  on  the  
original  dam,  blocking  off  the
water's  escape  around  the  sides  again  —  and,  with  the  wings  raked  
back  at  an  angle  against
the current, the dam worked even better than before.

'Stopped that sucker cold,' Richie said. 'You're a genius, man.'
Ben smiled. 'It's not so much.'

'I got some Winstons,' Richie said. 'Who wants one?'

He  produced  the  crumpled  red-and-white  pack from his pants pocket and 
passed it around.
Eddie,  thinking  of  the  hell  a  cigarette  would  raise  with  his  asthma, 
 refused.  Stan  also  refused.
Bill  took  one,  and,  after  a  moment's  thought,  Ben  took  one,  too.  
Richie  produced  a  book  of
matches  with  the  words  ROI-TAN  on  the  outside,  and  lit  first  Ben's  
cigarette,  then  Bill's.  He
was about to light his own when Bill blew out the match.

'Thanks a lot, Denbrough, you wet,' Richie said.

Bill  smiled  apologetically.  'The-The-Three  on  a  muh-muh-hatch,'  he  
said.  'B-Bad  luh-luh-
luck.'

'Bad  luck  for  your  folks  when  you  were  born,'  Richie  said,  and  lit  
his  cigarette  with  another
match.  He  lay  down  and  crossed  his  arms  beneath  his  head.  The  
cigarette  jutted  upward
between  his  teeth.  'Winston  tastes  good,  like  a  cigarette  should.'  He 
 turned  his  head  slightly
and winked at Eddie. 'Ain't that right, Eds?'

Ben,  Eddie  saw,  was  looking  at  Richie  with  a  mixture  of  awe  and  
wariness.  Eddie  could
understand   that.   He   had   known   Richie   Tozier   for   four   years,   
and   he   still   didn't   really
understand  what  Richie  was  about.  He  knew  that  Richie  got  A's  and  
B's  in  his  schoolwork,
but  he  also  knew  that  Richie  regularly  got  C's  and  D's  in  
deportment.  His  father  really  racked
him  about  it  and  his  mother  just  about  cried  every  time  Richie  
brought  home  those  poor
conduct  grades,  and  Richie  would  swear  to  do  better,  and  maybe  he  
even  would  .  .  .  for  a
quarter  or  two.  The  trouble  with  Richie  was  that  he  couldn't  keep  
still  for  more  than  a  minute
at  a  time  and  he  couldn't  keep  his  mouth shut  at  all.  Down  here  in 
 the  Barrens  that  didn't  get
him  in  much  trouble,  but  the  Barrens  weren't  Never-Never  Land  and  
they  couldn't  be  the
Wild  Boys  for  more  than  a  few  hours  at  a  stretch  (the  idea  of  a  
Wild  Boy  with  an  aspirator  in
his  back  pocket  made Eddie  smile).  The  trouble  with  the  Barrens  was  
that  you  always  had  to
leave.  Out  there  in  the  wider  world,  Richie's  bullshit  was  always  
getting  him  in  trouble  —
with adults, which was bad, and with guys like Henry Bowers, which was even 
worse.

His  entrance  earlier  today  was  a  perfect  example.  Ben  Hanscom  had  no 
 more  than  started
to say in when Richie had fallen on his knees at Ben's feet. He then began a 
series of gigantic
salaams,  his  arms  outstretched,  his  hands  fwapping  against  the  muddy  
bank  every  time  he
bowed again. At the same time he had begun to speak in one of his Voices.


Richie  had  about  a  dozen  different  Voices.  His  ambition,  he  had  told 
 Eddie  one  rainy
afternoon  when  they  were  in  the  little  raftered  room  over  the  
Kaspbrak  garage  reading Little
Lulu  comic  books,  was  to  become  the  world's  greatest  ventriloquist.  
He  was  going  to  be  even
greater  than  Edgar  Bergen,  he  said,  and  he  would  be  on  The  Ed  
Sullivan  Show  every week.
Eddie   admired   this   ambition   but   foresaw   problems   with   it.   
First,   ail  of   Richie's   Voices
sounded  pretty  much  like  Richie  Tozier.  This  was  not  to  say  Richie  
could  not  be  very  funny
from  time  to  time;  he  could  be.  When  referring  to  verbal  zingers  
and  loud  farts,  Richie's
terminology was the same: he called it Getting Off A Good One, and he got off 
Good Ones of
both  types  frequently  .  .  .  usually  in  inappropriate  company,  
however.  Second,  when  Richie
did  ventriloquism,  his  lips  moved.  Not  just  a  little,  on  the  'p'  —  
and  'b'  —  sounds,  but  a  lot,
and  on  all  the  sounds.  Third,  when  Richie  said  he  was  going  to  
throw  his  voice,  it  usually
didn't  go  very  far.  Most  of  his  friends  were  too  kind  —  or  too  
bemused  with  Richie's
sometimes enchanting, often exhausting charm — to mention these little failings 
to him.

Salaaming  frantically   in  front  of  the  startled  and  embarrassed  Ben  
Hanscom,  Richie  was
speaking in what he called his Nigger Jim Voice.

'Lawks-a-mussy,  it's  be  Haystack  Calhoun!'  Richie  screamed.  'Don't  fall 
 on  me,  Mistuh
Haystack,  suh!  You'se  gwineter  cream  me  if  you  do!  Lawks-a-mussy,  
lawks-a-mussy! Three
hunnert  pounds  of  swaingin  meat,  eighty-eight  inches  from  tit  to  tit, 
 Haystack  be  smellin  jest
like  a  loader  panther  shit!  I'se  gwineter  leadjer  inter  de  raing,  
Mistuh  Haystack,  suh!  I'se  sho
enuf gwineter leadjer! Jest don'tchoo be fallin on dis yere black boy!'

'D-Don't wuh-worry,' Bill said. 'It's j-j-just Ruh-Ruh-Richie. He's c-c-crazy.'

Richie  bounced  to  his  feet.  'I  heard  that,  Denbrough.  You  better  
leave  me  alone  or  I'll  sic
Haystack here on you.'

'B-Best p-p-part of you r-ran down your fuh-fuh-hather's l-l-leg,' Bill said.

'True,' Richie said, 'but look how much good stuff was left. How ya doin, 
Haystack? Richie
Tozier   is   my   name,   doing   Voices   is   my   game.'   He   popped   
his   hand   out.   Thoroughly
confused,  Ben  reached  for  it.  Richie  pulled  his  hand  back.  Ben  
bunked.  Relenting,  Richie
shook.

'My name's Ben Hanscom, in case you're interested,' Ben said.

'Seen  you  around  school,'  Richie  said.  He  swept  a  hand  at  the  
spreading  pool  of  water.
'This   must   have   been   your   idea.   These   wet   ends   couldn't   
light   a   firecracker   with   a
flamethrower.'

'Speak for yourself, Richie,' Eddie said.

'Oh  —  you  mean  it  was  your  idea,  Eds?  Jesus,  I'm  sorry.'  He  fell  
down  in  front  of  Eddie
and began salaaming wildly again.

'Get up, stop it, you're splattering mud on me!' Eddie cried.

Richie  jumped  to  his  feet  a  second  time  and  pinched  Eddie's  cheek.  
'Cute,  cute,  cute!'

Richie exclaimed.
'Stop it, I hate that!'

'Fess up, Eds — who built the dam?'
'B-B-Ben sh-showed us,' Bill said.

'Good  deal.'  Richie  turned  and  discovered  Stanley  Uris  standing  behind 
 him,  hands  in  his

pockets,  watching  quietly  as  Richie  put  on  his  show.  This  here's  
Stan  the  Man  Uris,'  Richie
told  Ben.  'Stan's  a  Jew.  Also,  he  killed  Christ.  At  least  that's  
what  Victor  Criss  told  me  one
day. I been after Stan ever since. I figure if he's that old, he ought to be 
able to buy us some
beer. Right, Stan?'

'I  think  that  must  have  been  my  father,'  Stan  said  in  a  low,  
pleasant  voice,  and  that broke
them  all  up,  Ben  included.  Eddie  laughed  until  he  was  wheezing  and  
tears  were  running  down
his face.


'A  Good  One!'  Richie  cried,  striding  around  with  his  arms  thrown  up  
over  his  head  like  a
football  referee  signalling  that  the  extra  point  was good. 'Stan the Man 
Gets Off A Good One!
Great Moments in History! Yowza-Yowza-YOWza!'

'Hi,' Stan said to Ben, seeming to take no notice of Richie at all.

'Hello,' Ben replied. 'We were in the same class in second grade. You were the 
kid who — '
' — never said anything,' Stan finished, smiling a little.

'Right.'

'Stan  wouldn't  say  shit  if  he  had  a  mouthful,'  Richie  said.  'Which  
he FREE-quently does  —
yowza-yowza-YOW — '

'Sh-Sh-Shut uh-up, Richie,' Bill said.

'Okay,  but  first  I  have  to  tell  you  one  more  thing,  much  as  I  
hate  to.  I  think  you're  losing
your dam. Valley's gonna flood, pardners. Let's get the women and children out 
first.'

And  without  bothering  to  roll  up  his  pants   —  or  even  to  remove  
his  sneakers   —  Richie
jumped  into  the  water  and  began  to  slam  sods  into  place  on  the  
nearside  wing  of  the  dam,
where  the  persistent  current  was  pulling  fill  out  in  muddy  streamers  
again.  A  piece  of  Red
Cross  adhesive  tape  was  wrapped  around  one  of  the  bows  of  his  
glasses,  and  the  loose end
flapped  against  his  cheekbone  as  he  worked.  Bill  caught  Eddie's  eye,  
smiled  a  Little,  and
shrugged.  It  was  just  Richie.  He  could  drive  you  bugshit  .  .  .  but 
 it  was  still  sort  of  nice  to
have him around.

They  worked  on  the  dam  for  the  next  hour  or  so.  Richie  took  Ben's  
commands  —  which
had  become  rather  tentative  again,  with  two  more  kids  to  general  —  
with perfect willingness,
and  fulfilled  them  at  a  manic  pace.  When  each  mission  was  completed  
he  reported  back  to
Ben  for  further  orders,  executing  a backhand  British  salute  and  
snapping  the  soggy  heels  of
his  sneakers  together.  Every  now  and  then  he  would  begin  to  harangue 
 the  others  in  one  of
his  Voices:  the  German  Commandant,  Toodles  the  English  Butler,  the  
Southern  Senator  (who
sounded  quite  a  bit  like  Foghorn  Leghorn  and  who  would,  in  the  
fullness  of  time,  evolve  into
a character named Buford Kissdrivel), the MovieTone Newsreel Narrator.

The  work  did  not  just  go  forward;  it  sprinted  forward.  And  now,  
shortly  before  five
o'clock, as they sat resting on the bank, it seemed that what Richie had said 
was true: they had
stopped  the  sucker  cold.  The  car  door,  the  piece  of  corrugated  
steel,  and  the  old  tires  had
become  the  second  stage  of  the  dam,  and  it  was  backstopped  by  a  
huge  sloping  hill  of  earth
and  stones.  Bill,  Ben,  and  Richie  smoked;  Stan  was  lying  on  his  
back.  A  stranger  might  have
thought  he  was  just  looking  at  the  sky,  but  Eddie  knew  better.  Stan 
 was  looking  into  the  trees
on  the  other  side  of  the  stream,  keeping  an  eye  out  for  a  bird  or 
 two he could write up in his
bird   notebook   that   night.   Eddie   himself   just   sat   cross-legged,  
feeling  pleasantly  tired  and
rather  mellow.  At  that  moment  the  others  seemed  to  him  like  the  
greatest  bunch  of  guys  to
chum  with  a  fellow  could  ever  hope  to  have.  They  felt   right   
together;  they  fitted  neatly
against  each  other's  edges.  He  couldn't  explain  it  to  himself  any  
better  than  that,  and  since  it
didn't really seem to need any explaining, he decided he ought to just let it 
be.

He  looked  over  at  Ben,  who  was  holding  his  half-smoked  cigarette  
clumsily  and  spitting
frequently,  as  if  he  didn't  like  the  taste  of  it  much.  As  Eddie  
watched,  Ben  stubbed  it  out  and
covered the long butt with dirt.

Ben looked up, saw Eddie watching him, and looked away, embarrassed.

Eddie  glanced  at  Bill  and  saw  something  on  Bill's  face  that  he  
didn't  like.  Bill  was  looking
across  the  water  and  into  the  trees  and  bushes  on  the  far  side,  
his  eyes  gray  and  thoughtful.
That brooding expression was back on his face. Eddie thought Bill looked almost 
haunted.

As  if  reading  his  thought,  Bill  looked  around  at  him.  Eddie  smiled,  
but  Bill  didn't  smile
back.  He  put  his  cigarette  out  and  looked  around  at  the  others.  
Even  Richie  had  withdrawn
into  the  silence  of  his  own  thoughts,  an  event  which  occurred  about  
as  seldom  as  a  lunar
eclipse.


Eddie  knew  that  Bill  rarely  said  anything  important  unless  it  was  
perfectly  quiet,  because  it
was  so  hard  for  him  to  speak.  And  he  suddenly  wished  he  had  
something  to  say,  or  that
Richie  would  start  in with one of his Voices. He was suddenly sure Bill was 
going to open his
mouth  and  say  something  terrible,  something  which  would  change  
everything.  Eddie  reached
automatically  for  his  aspirator,  pulled  it  out  of  his  back  pocket,  
and  held  it  in  his  hand.  He did
this without even thinking about it.

'C-Can I tell you g-g-guys suh-homething?' Bill asked.

They all looked at him.  Crack a joke, Richie!  Eddie thought.  Crack a joke, 
say something
really outrageous, embarrass him, I don't care, just shut him up.  Whatever it 
is, I don't want
to hear it, I don't want things to change, I don't want to be scared.

In his mind a tenebrous, croaking voice whispered: I'll do it for a dime,

Eddie  shuddered  and  tried  to  unthink  that  voice,  and  the  sudden  
image  ti called up in his

mind:  the  house  on  Neibolt  Street,  its  front  yard  overgrown  with  
weeds,  gigantic  sunflowers
nodding in the untended garden off to one side.

'Sure, Big Bill,' Richie said. 'What's up?'

Bill  opened  his  mouth  (more  anxiety  on  Eddie's  part),  closed  it  
(blessed  relief  for  Eddie),
and then opened it again (renewed anxiety).

'I-I-If  you  guh-guh-guys  l-l-laugh,  I-I'll  never  h-hang  around  with  
you  again,'  Bill  said.  'It's
cuh-cuh-crazy, but I swear I'm not muh-haking it up. It r-r-really happened.'

'We won't laugh,' Ben said. He looked around at the others. 'Will we?'
Stan shook his head. So did Richie.

Eddie wanted to say,  Yes we will too, Billy, we'll laugh our heads off and say 
you're really

stupid,  so  why  don't  you  shut  up right now?  But of course he could not 
say any such thing.
This  was,  after  all,  Big  Bill.  He  shook  his  head  miserably.  No,  he  
wouldn't  laugh.  He  had
never felt less like laughing in his life.

They  sat  there  above  the  dam  Ben  had  showed  them  how  to  make, 
looking from Bill's face
to  the  expanding  pool  and  the  likewise  expanding  bog  beyond  it  and  
then  back  to  Bill's  face
again,  listening  silently  as  he  told  them  about  what  had  happened  
when  he  opened  George's
photograph album  -  how  Georgie's  school  photograph  had  turned  its  head 
 and  winked  at  him,
how    the book had bled when he threw it across the room. It was a long, 
painful recital, and by
the  time  he  finished  Bill  was  red-faced  and  sweating.  Eddie  had  
never  heard  him  stutter  so
badly.

At  last,  though,  the  tale  was  told.  Bill  looked  around  at  them,  
both  defiant  and  afraid.  Eddie
saw an identical expression on the faces of Ben, Richie, and Stan. It was 
solemn, awed fear. It
was  not  in  the  slightest  tinctured  by  disbelief.  An  urge  came  to  
him  then,  an  urge to spring to
his feet and shout: What a crazy story! You don't believe that crazy story, do 
you, and even if
you  do,  you  don't  believe  we  believe  it,  do  you?  School  pictures  
can't  wink!  Books  can't
bleed! You're out of your mind, Big Bill!

But  he  couldn't  very  well  do  so,  because  that  expression  of  solemn  
fear  was  also  on  his
own face. He couldn't see it but he could feel it.

Come back here, kid, the hoarse voice whispered. I'll blow you for free. Come 
back here!
No, Eddie moaned at it. Please, go away, I don't want to think about that.

Come back here, kid.

And  now  Eddie  saw  something  else  —  not  on  Richie's  face,  at  least  
he  didn't  think  so,  but
on  Stan's  and  Ben's  for  sure.  He  knew  what  that  something  else  was; 
 knew  because  that
expression was on his own face, too.

Recognition.

'I'll blow you for free.


The  house  at  29  Neibolt  Street  was  just  outside  the  Derry  
trainyards.  It  was  old  and
boarded  up,  its  porch  gradually  sinking  back  into  the  ground,  its  
lawn  an  overgrown  field. An
old trike, rusting and overturned, hid in that long grass, one wheel sticking 
up at an angle.

But on the left side of the porch there was a huge bald patch in the lawn and 
you could see
dirty  cellar  windows  set  into  the  house's  crumbling  brick  foundation.  
It  was  in  one  of  those
windows that Eddie Kaspbrak first saw the face of the leper six weeks ago.

6

On  Saturdays,  when  Eddie  could  find  no  one  to  play  with,  he  often  
went  down  to  the
trainyards. No real reason; he just liked to go out there.

He  would  ride  his  bike  out  Witcham  Street  and  then  cut  to  the  
northwest  along  Route  2
where  it  crossed  Witcham.  The  Neibolt  Street  Church  School  stood  on  
the  corner  of  Route  2
and  Neibolt  Street  a  mile  or  so  farther  on.  It  was  a  shabby-neat  
wood-frame  building with a
large cross on top and the words  SUFFER THE LITTLE CHILDREN TO COME UNTO  ME 
written over
the  front  door  in  gilt  letters  two  feet  high.  Sometimes,  on  
Saturdays,  Eddie  heard  music  and
singing  coming  from  inside.  It  was  gospel  music,  but  whoever was 
playing the piano sounded
more  like  Jerry  Lee  Lewis  than  a  regular  church  piano  player.  The  
singing  didn't  sound  very
religious  to  Eddie,  either,  although  there  was  lots  of  stuff  in  it  
about  'beautiful  Zion'  and  being
'washed  in  the  blood  of  the  lamb'  and  'what  a  friend  we  have  in  
Jesus.'  The  people  singing
seemed  to  be  having  much  too  good  a  time  for  it  to  really  be  
sacred  singing,  in  Eddie's
opinion.  But  he  liked  the  sound  of  it  all  the  same  —  the  way  he  
liked  to  hear  Jerry  Lee
hollering  out  'Whole  Lotta  Shakin'  Goin'  On.'  Sometimes  he  would  stop 
 for  awhile  across  the
street,  leaning  his  bike  against  a  tree  and  pretending  to  read  on  
the  grass,  actually  jiving  along
to the music.

Other  Saturdays  the  Church  School  would  be  shut  up  and  silent  and  
he  would  ride  out  to
the  trainyard  without  stopping,  out  to  where  Neibolt  Street  ended  in  
a  parking  lot  with  weeds
growing  up  through  the  cracks  in  the  asphalt.  There  he  would  lean  
his  bike  against  the
wooden  fence  and  watch  the  trains  go  by.  There  were  a  lot of them on 
Saturdays. His mother
told  him  that  in  the  old  days  you  could  catch  a  GS&WM  passenger  
train  at  what  was  then
Neibolt  Street  Station,  but  the  passenger  trains  had  stopped  running  
around  the  time  the
Korean  War  was  starting  up.  'If  you  got  on  the  northbound  train  you 
 went  to  Brownsville
Station,'  she  said,  'and  from  Brownsville  you  could  catch  a  train  
that  would  take  you  all  the
way across Canada if you wanted, all the way to the Pacific. The southbound 
tram would take
you  to  Portland  and  then  on down  to  Boston,  and  from  South  Station  
the  country  was  yours.
But the passenger trains have gone the way of the trolley lines now, I guess. 
No one wants to
ride a train when they can just jump in a Ford and go. You may never even ride 
one.'

But  great  long  freights  still  came  through  Derry.  They  headed  south  
loaded  down  with
pulpwood,  paper,  and  potatoes,  and  north  with  manufactured  goods  for  
those  towns  of  what
Maine  people  sometimes  called  the  Big  Northern  —  Bangor,  Millinocket,  
Machias,  Presque
Isle,  Houlton.  Eddie  particularly  liked  to  watch  the  northbound  
car-carriers with their loads of
gleaming  Fords  and  Chevies.  I'll  have  me  a  car  like  one  of  those  
someday,   he  promised
himself. Like one of those or even better. Maybe even a Cadillac!

There  were  six  tracks  in  all,  swooping  into  the  station  like  strands 
 of  cobweb  tending
toward  the  center:  Bangor  and  Great  Northern  Lines  from  the  north,  
the  Great  Southern  and
Western  Maine  from  the  west,  the  Boston  and  Maine  from  the  south,  
and  Southern  Seacoast
from the east.

One  day  two  years  before,  when  Eddie  had  been  standing  near  the  
latter  line  and  watching
a  train  go  through,  a  drunken  trainman  had  thrown  a  crate  out  of  a 
 slow-moving  boxcar  at


Mm.  Eddie  ducked  and  flinched  backward,  although  the  crate  landed  in  
the  cinders  ten  feet
away.  There  were  things  inside  it,  live  things  that  clicked  and  
moved.  'Last  ran,  boy!'  the
drunken  trainman  had  shouted.  He  pulled  a  flat  brown  bottle  from  one 
 of  the  pockets  of  his
denim  jacket,  tipped  it  up,  drank,  then  flipped  it  into  the  cinders, 
 where  it  smashed.  The
trainman  pointed  at  the  crate.  'Take  em  home  to  yer  mum!  Compliments 
 of  the  Southern-
Fucking-Seacoast-Bound-for-Welfare  Line!'  He  had  reeled  forward  to  shout 
 these  last  words
as  the  train  pulled  away,  gathering  speed  now,  and  for  one  alarming  
moment  Eddie  thought
he was going to tumble right out.

When  the  train  was  gone,  Eddie  went  to  the  box  and  bent  cautiously  
over  it.  He  was  afraid

to  get  too  close.  The  things  inside  were  slithery  and  crawly.  If  
the  rtainman  had  yelled  that

they  were  for  him,  Eddie  would  have  left  them  right  there.  But  he  
had  said  take  em  home  to
your Mom, and, like Ben, when someone said Mom, Eddie jumped.

He  scrounged  a  hank  of  rope  from  one  of  the  empty  quonset  
warehouses  and  tied the crate
onto  the  package  carrier  of  his  bike.  His  mother  had  peered  inside  
the  crate  even  more  warily
than  Eddie  himself,  and  then  she  screamed  —  but  with  delight  rather  
than  terror.  There  were
four  lobsters  in  the  crate,  big  two-pounders  with  their  claws  pegged. 
 She  cooked  them  for
supper and had been extremely grumpy with Eddie when he wouldn't eat any.

'What  do  you  think  the  Rockefellers  are  eating  this  evening  at  their 
 place  in  Bar  Harbor?'
she  asked  indignantly.  'What  do  you  think  the  swells  are  eating  at  
Twenty-one and Sardi's in
New  York  City?  Peanut  butter  and  jelly  sandwiches?  They're  eating  
lobster,  Eddie, same as
we are! Now come on — give it a try.'

But Eddie wouldn't  —  at  least  that  was  what  his  mother  said.  Maybe  
it  was  true,  but ni side

it  felt  more  to  Eddie  like  couldn't  than  wouldn't.  He  kept  thinking  
of  the  way  they  had
slithered  inside  the  crate,  and  the  clicking  sounds  their  claws  had  
made.  She  kept  telling  him
how  delicious  they  were  and  what  a  treat  he  was  missing  until  he  
started  to  gasp  for  breath
and had to use his aspirator. Then she left him alone.

Eddie  retreated  to  his  bedroom  and  read.  His  mother  called  up  her  
friend  Eleanor  Dunton.
Eleanor came over and the two of them read old copies of  Photoplay and  Screen 
 Secrets  and
giggled  over  the  gossip  columns  and  gorged  themselves  on  cold  lobster 
 salad.  When  Eddie
got  up  for  school  the  next  morning,  his  mother  was  still  in  bed,  
snoring  away  and  letting
frequent  farts  that  sounded  like  long,  mellow  cornet  notes  (she  was  
Getting Off Some Good
Ones,  Richie  would  have  said).  There  was  nothing  left  in  the  bowl  
where  the  lobster  salad
had been except a few tiny blots of mayonnaise.

That  was  the  last  Southern  Seacoast  train  Eddie  ever  saw,  and  when  
he  later  saw  Mr
Braddock,  the  Derry  trainmaster,  he  asked  him  hesitantly  what  had  
happened.  'Cump'ny  went
broke,' Mr Braddock said. 'That's all there was to it. Don't you read the 
papers? It's hap'nin ail
over the damn country. Now get out of here. This ain't no place for a kid.'

After   that   Eddie   would   sometimes   walk   along   track   4,   which   
had   been   the   Southern
Seacoast  track,  and  listen  as  a  mental  conductor  chanted  names  inside 
 his  head,  reeling  them
off    in  a  lovely  Downcast  monotone,  those  names,  those  magic  names:  
Camden,  Rockland,
Bar  Harbor  (pronounced  Baa  Haabaa),  Wiscasset,  Bath,  Portland,  
Ogunquit,  the  Berwicks;  he
would  walk  down  track  4  heading  east  until  he  got  tired,  and  the  
weeds  growing  up  between
the  crossties  made  him  feel  sad.  Once  he  had  looked  up  and  seen  
seagulls  (probably  just  fat
old  dump-gulls  who  didn't  give  a  shit  if  they  ever  saw  the  ocean,  
but  that  had  not  occurred  to
him  then)  wheeling  and  crying  overhead,  and  the  sound  of  their  
voices  had  made  him  cry  a
little, too.

There  had  once  been  a  gate  at  the  entrance  to  the  trainyards,  but  
it  had  blown  over  in  a
windstorm  and  no  one  had  bothered  to  replace  it.  Eddie  came  and  
went  pretty  much  as  he
liked,  although  Mr  Braddock  would  kick  him  out  if  he  saw  him  (or  
any  other  kid,  for  that
matter).  There  were  truck-drivers  who  would  chase  you  sometimes  (put  
not  very  far)  because


they  thought  you  were  hanging  around  just  so  you  could  hawk  
something  —  and sometimes
kids did.

Mostly,  though,  the  place  was  quiet.  There  was  a  guard-booth  but  it  
was  empty,  its  glass
windows  broken  by  stones.  There  had  been  no  full-time security service 
since 1950 or so. Mr
Braddock  shooed  the  kids  away  by  day  and  a  night-watchman  drove  
through  four  or  five
times  a  night  in  an  old  Studebaker  with  a  searchlight  mounted  
outside  the  vent  window and
that was all.

There  were  tramps  and  hobos  sometimes,  though.  If  anything  about  the  
trainyards  scared
Eddie,  they  did   —  men  with  unshaven  cheeks  and  cracked  skin  and  
blisters  on  their  hands
and  coldsores  on  their  lips.  They  rode  the  rails  for  awhile  and  
then  climbed  down  for  awhile
and  spent  some  time  in  Derry  and  then  got  on  another  train  and  
went  somewhere  else.
Sometimes  they  had  missing  fingers.  Usually  they  were  drunk  and  
wanted  to  know  if  you  had
a cigarette.

One  of  these  fellows  had  crawled  out  from  under  the  porch  of  the  
house  at  29  Neibolt
Street one day and had offered to give Eddie a blowjob for a quarter. Eddie had 
backed away,
his skin like ice, his mouth as dry as lintballs. One of the hobo's nostrils 
had been eaten away.
You could look right into the red, scabby channel.

'I don't have a quarter,' Eddie said, backing toward his bike.

'I'll  do  it  for  a  dime,'  the  hobo  croaked,  coming  toward  him.  He  
was  wearing  old  green
flannel  pants.  Yellow  puke  was  stiffening  across  the  lap.  He  unzipped 
 his  fly  and  reached
inside. He was trying to grin. His nose was a red horror.

'I  .  .  .  I  don't  have  a  dime,  either,'  Eddie  said,  and  suddenly  
thought:  Oh  my  God  he's  got

leprosy! If he touches me I'll catch it too!  His control snapped  and he ran. 
He heard the hobo
break  into  a  shuffling  run  behind  him,  his  old  string-tied  shoes  
slapping  and  flapping  across
the riotous lawn of the empty saltbox house.

'Come back here, kid! I'll blow you for free. Come back here!'

Eddie  had  leaped on  his  bike,  wheezing  now,  feeling  his  throat  
closing  up  to  a  pinhole.  His
chest  had  taken  on  weight.  He  hit  the  pedals  and  was  just  picking  
up  speed  when  one  of  the
hobo's  hands  struck  the  package  carrier.  The  bike  shimmied.  Eddie  
looked  over  his  shoulder
and  saw  the  hobo  running  along  behind  the  rear  wheel  (!!GAINING!!),  
his  lips  drawn  back
from  the  black  stumps  of  his  teeth  in  an  expression  which  might  
have  been  either  desperation
or fury.

In  spite  of  the  stones  lying  on  his  chest  Eddie  had  pedaled  even 
faster, expecting that one
of  the  hobo's  scab-crusted  hands  would  close  over  his  arm  at  any  
moment,  pulling  him  from
his  Raleigh  and  dumping  him  in  the  ditch,  where  God  knew  what  would 
 happen  to  him.  He
hadn't  dared  look  around  until  he  had  flashed  past the Church School 
and through the Route 2
intersection. The 'bo was gone.

Eddie  held  this  terrible  story  inside  him  for  almost  a  week  and  
then  confided  it  to  Richie
Tozier and Bill Denbrough one day when they were reading comics over the 
garage.

'He didn't have leprosy, you dummy,' Richie said. 'He had the Syph.'

Eddie  looked  at  Bill  to  see  if  Richie  was  ribbing  him —  he  had  
never  heard  of  a  disease
called the Sift before. It sounded like something Richie might have made up.

'Is there such a thing as the Sift, Bill?'

Bill nodded gravely. 'Only it's the Suh-Suh-Syph, not the Sift. It's s-short 
for syphilis.'
'What's that?'

'It's a disease you get from fucking,' Richie said. 'You know about fucking, 
don't you, Eds?'

'Sure,'  Eddie  said.  He  hoped  he  wasn't  blushing.  He  knew  that  when  
you  got  older,  stuff
came  out  of  your  penis  when  it  was  hard.  Vincent  'Boogers'  Taliendo  
had  filled  him  in  on  the
rest  one  day  at  school.  What  you  did  when  you  fucked,  according  to  
Boogers,  was  you
rubbed  your  cock  against  a  girl's  stomach  until  it  got  hard  (your  
cock,  not  the  girl's  stomach).


Then you rubbed some more until you started to 'get the feeling.' When Eddie 
asked what that
meant,  Boogers  had  only  shaken  his  head  in  a  mysterious  way.  Boogers 
said that you couldn't
describe it, but you'd know it as soon as you got it. He said you could 
practice by lying in the
bathtub  and  rubbing  your  cock  with  Ivory  soap  (Eddie  had  tried  this, 
 but  the  only  feeling  he
got  was  the  need  to  urinate  after  awhile).  Anyway,  Boogers  went  on,  
after  you  'got  the
feeling,'  this  stuff  came  out  of  your  penis.  Most  kids  called  it  
come,  Boogers  said,  but  his  big
brother  had  told  him  that  the  really  scientific  word  for  it  was  
jizzum.  And  when  you  'got  the
feeling,'  you  had to  grab  your  cock  and  aim  it  real  fast  so  you  
could  shoot  the  jizzum  into  the
girl's  bellybutton  as  soon  as  it  came  out.  It  went  down  into  her  
stomach  and  made  a  baby
there.

Do girls like that'? Eddie had asked Boogers Taliendo. He himself was sort of 
appalled.

I guess they must, Boogers had replied, looking mystified himself.

'Now listen up, Eds,' Richie said, 'because there may be questions later. Some 
women have
got this disease. Some men, too, but mostly it's women. A guy can get it from a 
woman — '

'Or another g-g-guy if they're kwuh-kwuh-queer,' Bill added.

'Right.  The  important  thing  is  you  get  the  Syph  from  screwing  
someone  who's  already  got


it.'

'What does it do?' Eddie asked.
'Makes you rot,' Richie said simply.
Eddie stared at him, horrified.

'It's  bad,  I  know,  but  it's  true,'  Richie  said.  'Your  nose  is  the  
first  thing  to  go.  Some  guys

with the Syph, their noses fall right off. Then their cocks.'
'Puh-Puh-Puh-leeze,' Bill said. 'I just a-a-ate.'

'Hey, man, this is science,' Richie said.

'So what's the difference between leprosy and the Syph?' Eddie asked.

'You    don't    get    leprosy    from    fucking,'    Richie    said    
promptly,    and    then    went
off into a gale of laughter that left both Bill and Eddie mystified.

7

Following  that  day  the  house  at  29  Neibolt  Street  had  taken  on  a  
kind  of  glow  in  Eddie's
imagination.  Looking  at  its  weedy yard and  its  slumped porch and  the  
boards nailed across  its
windows,  he  would  feel  an  unhealthy  fascination  take  hold  of  him.  
And  six weeks ago he had
parked  his  bike  on  the  gravelly  verge  of  the  street  (the  sidewalk  
ended  four  houses  farther
back) and walked across the lawn toward the porch of that house.

His  heart  had  been  beating  hard  in  his  chest,  and  his  mouth  had  
that  dry  taste  again  —
listening   to   Bill's   story   of   the   dreadful   picture,   he   knew   
that   what   he   had   felt   when
approaching  that  house  was  about  the  same  as  what  Bill  had  felt  
going  into  George's  room.
He did not feel as if he was in control of himself. He felt pushed.

It  did  not  seem  as  if  his  feet  were  moving;  instead  the  house  
itself,  brooding  and  silent,

seemed to draw closer to where he stood.

Faintly,  he  could  hear  a  diesel  engine  in  the  trainyard  —  that  and  
the  liquid-metallic  slam
of  couplings  being  made.  They  were  shunting  some  cars  onto  sidings,  
picking  up  others.
Making a train.

His hand gripped his aspirator, but, oddly, his asthma had not closed down as 
it had on the
day  he  fled  from  the  hobo  with  the  rotted  nose.  There  was  only  
that  sense  of  standing still and
watching the house slide stealthily toward him, as if on a hidden track.

Eddie  looked  under  the  porch.  There  was  no  one  there.  It  was  not  
really  surprising.  This
was  spring,  and  hobos  showed  up  most  frequently  in  Derry  from  late  
September  to  early


November.  During  those  six  weeks  or  so  a  man  could  pick  up  day-work 
 on  one  of  the
outlying   farms   if   he   looked   even   half-decent.   There   were   
potatoes   and   apples   to   pick,
snowfence  to  string,  barn  and  shed  roofs  which  needed  to  be  patched  
before  December came
along, whistling up winter.

No  hobos  under  the  porch,  but  plenty  of  sign  they  had  been  there.  
Empty  beer  cans,  empty
beer  bottles,  empty  liquor  bottles.  A  dirt-crusted  blanket  lay  against 
 the  brick  foundation  like
a  dead  dog.  There  were  drifts  of  crumpled  newspapers  and  one  old  
shoe  and  a  smell  like
garbage. There were thick layers of old leaves under there.

Not  wanting  to  do  it  but  unable  to  help  himself,  Eddie  had  crawled  
under  the  porch.  He

could  feel  his  heartbeat  slamming  in  his  head  now,  driving  white  
spots  of  light  across  his
field of vision.

The  smell  was  worse  underneath  —  booze  and  sweat  and  the  dark  brown 
 perfume  of
decaying  leaves.  The  old  leaves  didn't  even  crackle  under  his  hands  
and  knees.  They  and  the
old newspapers only sighed.

I'm a hobo,  Eddie thought incoherently. I'm a hobo and I ride the rods. That's 
what I do.
Ain't got no money, ain't got no home, but I got me a bottle and a dollar and a 
place to sleep.
I'll  pick  apples  this  week  and  potatoes  the  week  after that and when 
the frost locks up the
ground like money inside a bank vault, why, I'll hop a GS&WM box that smells of 
sugar-beets
and I'll sit in the corner and pull some hay over me if there is some and I'll 
drink me a little
drink and chew me a link chew and sooner or later I'll get to Portland or 
Beantown, and if I
don't get busted by a railroad security dick I'll hop one of those 'Bama Star 
boxes and head
down south and when I get there I'll pick lemons or limes or oranges. And if I 
get nagged I'll
build roads for tourists to ride on. Hell, I done it before, ain't I? I'm just 
a lonesome old hobo,
ain't got no money, ain't got no home, but I got me one thing; I got me a 
disease that's eating
me  up.  My  skin's  cracking  open,  my  teeth  are  falling  out,  and  you 
know what? I can feel
myself  turning  bad  like  an  apple  that's  going  soft,  I  can  feel it 
happening, eating from the
inside to the out, eating, eating, eating me.

Eddie  pulled  the  stiffening  blanket  aside,  tweezing  at  it  with  his  
thumb  and   forefinger,
grimacing  at  its  matted  feel.  One  of  those  low  cellar  windows  was  
directly  behind  it,  one  pane
broken,  the  other  opaque  with  dirt.  He  leaned  forward,  now  feeling  
almost  hypnotized.  He
leaned  closer  to  the  window,  closer  to  the  cellar-darkness,  breathing  
in that smell of age and
must  and  dry-rot,  closer  and  closer  to  the  black,  and  surely  the  
leper  would  have  caught  him
if  his  asthma  hadn't  picked  that  exact  moment  to  kick  up.  It  
cramped  his  lungs  with  a  weight
that  was  painless  yet  frightening;  his  breath  at  once  took  on  the  
familiar  hateful  whistling
sound.

He drew back, and that was when the face appeared. Its coming was so sudden, so 
startling
(and yet at the same time so  expected),  that Eddie could not have screamed 
even if he hadn't
been  having  an asthma  attack.  His  eyes  bulged.  His  mouth  creaked  
open.  It  was  not  the  hobo
with  the  flayed  nose,  but  there  were  resemblances.  Terrible  
resemblances.  And  yet  .  .  .  this
thing could not be human. Nothing could be so eaten up and remain alive.

The  skin  of  its  forehead  was  split  open.  White  bone,  coated  with  a  
membrane  of  yellow
mucusy  stuff,  peered  through  like  the  lens  of  a  bleary  searchlight.  
The  nose  was  a  bridge  of
raw  gristle  above  two  red  flaring  channels.  One  eye  was  a  gleeful  
blue.  The  other  socket was
filled  with  a  mass  of  spongy  brown-black tissue. The leper's lower lip 
sagged like liver. It had
no upper lip at all; its teeth poked out in a sneering ring.

It shot one hand out through the broken pane. It shot the other through the 
dirty glass  to the
left,   shattering   it   to   fragments.   Its   questing,   clutching   hands 
  crawled   with   sores.   Beetles
crawled and lumbered busily to and fro.


Mewling,  gasping,  Eddie  hunched  his  way  backward.  He  could  hardly  
breathe.  His  heart
was  a  runaway  engine  in  his  chest.  The  leper  appeared  to  be  wearing 
 the  ragged  remains  of
some strange silvery suit. Things were crawling in the straggles of its brown 
hair.

'How  bout  a  blowjob,  Eddie?'  the  apparition  croaked,  grinning  with  
its  remains  of  a  mouth.
It  lilted,  'Bobby  does  it  for  a  dime,  he  will  do  it  anytime,  
fifteen  cents  for  overtime.'  It
winked.  That's  me,  Eddie  —  Bob  Gray.  And  now  that  we've  been  
properly  introduced  .  .  .  '
One of its hands splatted against Eddie's right shoulder. Eddie screamed 
thinly.

That's  all  right,'  the  leper  said,  and  Eddie  saw  with  dreamlike  
terror  that  it  was  crawling  out
of  the  window.  The  bony  shield  behind  its  peeling  forehead  snapped  
the  thin  wooden  strip
between   the   two   panes.   Its   hands   clawed   through   the   leafy,   
mulchy   earth.   The   silver
shoulders of its suit . . . costume . . . whatever it was . . . began to push 
through the gap. That
one glaring blue eye never left Eddie's face.

'Here  I  come,  Eddie,  that's  all  right,'  it  croaked.  'You'll  like  it  
down  here  with  us.  Some  of
your friends are down here.'

Its  hand  reached  out  again,  and  in  some  corner  of  his  
panic-maddened,  screaming  mind,
Eddie was suddenly, coldly sure that if that thing touched his bare skin, he 
would begin to rot,
too.  The  thought  broke  his  paralysis.  He  skittered  backward  on  his  
hands  and  knees,  then
turned  and  lunged  for  the  far  end  of  the  porch.  Sunlight,  falling  
in  narrow  dusty  beams
through  the  cracks  between  the  porch  boards,  striped  his  face  from  
moment  to  moment.  His
head  pushed  through  the  dusty  cobwebs  that  settled  in  his  hair.  He  
looked  back  over  his
shoulder and saw that the leper was halfway out.

'It won't do you any good to run, Eddie,' it called.

Eddie  had  reached  the  far  end  of  the  porch.  There  was  a  
lattice-work  skirt  here.  The  sun
shone  through  it,  printing  diamonds  of  light  on  his  cheeks  and  
forehead.  He  lowered  his  head
and  slammed  into  it  with  no  hesitation  at  all,  tearing  the  entire  
skirt  free  with  a  scream  of
rusted  ha'penny  nails.  There  was  a  tangle  of  rosebushes  beyond  and  
Eddie tore through these,
stumbling  to  his  feet  as  he  did  so,  not  feeling  the  thorns  that  
scrawled  shallow  cuts  along  his
arms  and cheeks and neck.

He  turned  and  backed  away  on  buckling  legs,  pulling  his  aspirator  
out  of  his  pocket,

triggering  it.  Surely  it  hadn't  really  happened?  He  had  been  thinking 
 about  that  hobo  and  his
mind had . . . well, had just

(put on a show)

shown  him  a  movie,  a  horror  movie,  like  one  of  those  
Saturday-matinee  pictures  with
Frankenstein  and  Wolfman  that  they  had  sometimes  at  the  Bijou  or  the 
 Gem  or  the  Aladdin.
Sure, that was all. He had scared himself! What an asshole!

There  was  even  time  to  utter  a  shaky  laugh  at  the  unsuspected  
vividness  of  his  imagination
before  the  rotting  hands  shot  out  from  under  the  porch,  clawing  at  
the  rosebushes  with
mindless ferocity, pulling at them, stripping them, printing beads of blood on 
them.

Eddie shrieked.

The  leper  was  crawling  out.  It  was  wearing  a  clown  suit,  he  saw  —  
a  clown  suit  with  big
orange  buttons  down  the  front. It  saw  Eddie  and  grinned.  Its  
half-mouth dropped open and its
tongue  lolled  out.  Eddie  shrieked  again,  but  no  one  could  have  heard 
 one  boy's  breathless
shriek  under  the  pounding  of  the  diesel  engine  in  the  trainyard.  The 
 leper's  tongue  had  not
just  dropped  from  its  mouth;  it  was  at  least  three  feet  long  and  
had  unrolled  like  a  party-favor.
It   came   to   an   arrow-point   which   dragged   in   the   dirt.   Foam,  
 thick-sticky  and  yellowish,
coursed along it. Bugs crawled over it.

The  rosebushes,  which  had  been  showing  the  first  touches  of  spring  
green  when  Eddie
broke through them, now turned a dead and lacy black.

'Blowjob,' the leper whispered, and tottered to its feet.


Eddie  raced  for  his  bike.  It  was  the  same  race  as  before,  only  it  
now  had  the  quality  of  a
nightmare,  where  you  can  only  move  with  the  most  agonizing  slowness  
no  matter  how  hard
you  try  to  go  fast  .  .  .  and  in  those  dreams  didn't  you  always  
hear  or  feel  something,  some  It,
gaining on you? Didn't you always smell Its stinking breath, as Eddie was 
smelling it now?

For  a  moment  he  felt  a  wild  hope:  perhaps  this  really was  a  
nightmare.  Perhaps  he  would
awake in his own bed, bathed in sweat, shaking, maybe even crying . . . but 
alive.  Safe.  Then
he pushed the thought away. Its charm was deadly, its comfort fatal.

He  did  not  try  to  mount  his  bike  immediately;  he  ran  with  it  
instead,  head  down,  pushing
the handlebars. He felt as if he was drowning, not in water but inside his own 
chest.

'Blowjob,' the leper whispered again. 'Come back anytime, Eddie. Bring your 
friends.'

Its  rotting  fingers  seemed  to  touch  the  back  of  his  neck,  but  
perhaps  that  was  only  a
dangling  strand  of  cobweb  from  under  the  porch,  caught  in  his  hair  
and  brushing  against  his
shrinking  flesh.  Eddie  leaped  onto  his  bike  and  pedaled  away,  not  
caring  that  his  throat  had
closed  up  tight  as  Tillie  again,  not  giving  two  sucks  for  his  
asthma,  not  looking  back.  He
didn't  look  back  until  he  was  almost  home,  and  of  course  there  was  
nothing  behind  him  when
he finally did but two kids headed over to the park to play ball.

That    night,    lying    straight    as    a    poker    in    bed,    one    
hand    folded    tightly    around
his    aspirator,    looking    into    the    shadows,    he    heard    the   
 leper    whisper:    It    won't
do you, any good to run, Eddie.

8

'Wow,'   Richie   said   respectfully.   It   was   the   first   thing   any   
of   them   had   said   since   Bill
Denbrough finished his story.

'H-Have you g-g-got a-another suh-suh-higgarette, R-R-Richie?'

Richie  gave  him  the  last  one  in  the  pack  he  had  hawked  almost  
empty  from  his  dad's  desk
drawer. He even lit it for Bill.

'You didn't dream it, Bill?' Stan asked suddenly.
Bill shook his head. 'N-N-No duh-dream.'
'Real,' Eddie said in a low voice.

Bill looked at him sharply. 'Wh-Wh-What?'

'Real,  I  said.'  Eddie  looked  at  him  almost  resentfully.  'It  really  
happened.  It  was   real.'  And
before  he  could  stop  himself  —  before  he  even  knew  he  was  going  to 
 do  it  —  Eddie found
himself  telling  the  story  of  the  leper  that  had  come  crawling  out  
of  the  basement  at  29  Neibolt
Street.  Halfway  through  the  telling  he  began  to  gasp  and  had  to  use 
 his  aspirator.  And  at  the
end he burst into shrill tears, his thin body shaking.

They  all  looked  at  him  uncomfortably,  and  then  Stan  put  a  hand  on  
his  back.  Bill  gave  him
an awkward hug while the others glanced away, embarrassed.

That's a-all right, E-Eddie. It's o-o-okay.'

'I saw it too,' Ben Hanscom said suddenly. His voice was flat and harsh and 
scared.
Eddie looked up, his face still naked with tears, his eyes red and raw-looking. 
'What?'

'I  saw  the  clown,'  Ben  said.  'Only  he  wasn't  like  you  said  —  at 
least not when I saw him.
He wasn't all gooshy. He was . . . he was dry.' He paused, ducked his head, and 
looked at his
hands, which lay palely on his elephantine thighs. 'I think he was the mummy.'

'Like in the movies?' Eddie asked.

'Like  that  but   not  like  that,'  Ben  said  slowly.  'In  the  movies  he  
looks  fake.  It's  scary,  but
you can tell it's a put-up job, you know? All those bandages, they look too 
neat, or something.
But this  guy  .  .  .  he  looked  the  way  a  real  mummy  would  look,  I  
think.  If  you  actually  found
one in a room under a pyramid, I mean. Except for the suit.'


'Wuh-wuh-wuh-hut suh-hoot?'

Ben looked at Eddie. 'A silver suit with big orange buttons down the front.'

Eddie's mouth dropped open. He shut it and said, 'If you're kidding, say so. I 
still . . . I still
dream about that guy under the porch.'

'It's  not  a  joke,'  Ben  said,  and  began  to  tell  the  story.  He  told  
it  slowly,  beginning  with  his
volunteering  to  help  Mrs  Douglas  count  and  store  books  and  ending  
with  his  own  bad
dreams. He spoke slowly, not looking at the others. He spoke as if deeply 
ashamed of his own
behavior. He didn't raise his head again until the story was over.

'You  must  have  dreamed  it,'  Richie  said  finally.  He  saw  Ben  wince  
and  hurried  on:  'Now

don't  take  it  personal,  Big  Ben,  but  you  got  to  see  that  balloons  
can't,  like,  float  against  the
wind — '

'Pictures can't wink, either,' Ben said.

Richie  looked  from  Ben  to  Bill,  troubled.  Accusing  Ben  of  dreaming  
awake  was  one  thing;
accusing  Bill  was  something  else.  Bill  was  their  leader,  the  guy  
they  all  looked  up  to.  No  one
said  so  out  loud;  no  one  needed  to.  But  Bill  was  the  idea  man,  
the  guy  who  could  think  of
something  to  do  on  a  boring  day,  the  guy  who  remembered  games  the  
others  had  forgotten.
And  in  some  odd  way  they  all  sensed  something  comfortingly  adult  
about  Bill  —  perhaps  it
was  a  sense  of  accountability,  a  feeling  that  Bill  would  take  the  
responsibility  if  responsibility
needed  to  be  taken.  The  truth  was,  Richie  believed  Bill's  story,  
crazy  as  it  was.  And  perhaps
he didn't want to believe Ben's . . . or Eddie's, for that matter.

'Nothing like that ever happened to you, huh?' Eddie asked Richie.

Richie  paused,  began  to  say  something,  shook  his  head,  paused  again,  
then  said:  'Scariest
thing  I've  seen  lately  was  Mark  Prenderlist  takin  a  leak  in  McCarron 
 Park.  Ugliest  hogger  you
ever saw.'

Ben said, 'What about you, Stan?'

'No,'  Stan  said  quickly,  and  lo oked  somewhere  else.  His  small  face  
was  pale,  his  lips
pressed together so tightly they were white.

'W-W-Was there suh-homething, S-St-Stan?' Bill asked.

'No,  I  told  you!'  Stan  got  to  his  feet  and  walked  to  the  
embankment,  hands  in  his  pockets.
He  stood  watching  the  water  course  over  the  top  of  the  original  dam 
 and  pile  up  behind  the
second Watergate.

'Come  on,  now,  Stanley!'  Richie  said  in  a  shrill  falsetto.  This  was  
another  of  his  Voices:
Granny  Grunt.  When  speaking  in  his  Granny  Grunt  Voice,  Richie  would  
hobble  around  with
one  fist  against  the  small  of  his  back,  and  cackle  a  lot.  He  
still,  however,  sounded  more  like
Richie Tozier than anyone else.

'Fess  up,  Stanley,  tell  your  old  Granny  about  the  baaaaad  clown  and  
I'll  give  you  a
chocker-chip cookie. You just tell — '

'Shut   up!'   Stan   yelled   suddenly,   whirling   on   Richie,   who   fell 
  back   a   step   or   two,
astonished. 'Just shut up!'

'Yowza,  boss,'  Richie  said,  and  sat  down.  He  looked  at  Stan  Uris  
mistrustfully. Bright spots
of color flamed in Stan's cheeks, but he still looked more scared than mad.

'That's okay,' Eddie said quietly. 'Never mind, Stan.'

'It wasn't a clown,' Stanley said. His eyes flicked from one of them to the 
next to the next to
the next. He seemed to struggle with himself.

'Y-Y-You can t-tell,' Bill said, also speaking quietly. 'W -We d-d-did.'
'It wasn't a clown. It was — '

Which  was  when  the  carrying,  whiskey-roughened  tones  of  Mr  Nell  
interrup ted,  making
them  all  jump  as  if  they  had  been  shot:  'Jay-sus  Christ  on  a  
jumped-up  chariot-driven crutch!
Look at this mess! Jaysus Christ!'


C H A P T E R  8

Georgie's Room and the House on Neibolt Street

1

Richard Tozier turns off the radio, which has been blaring out Madonna's 'Like 
a Virgin' on
WZON  (a  station  which  declares  itself  to  be  'Banger's  AM stereo  
rocker!'  with  a  kind  of
hysterical frequency), pulls over to the side of the road, shuts down the 
engine of the Mustang
the  Avis  people  rented  him  at  Bangor  International,  and  gets  out.  He 
 hears  the  pull and
release of his own breath in his ears. He has seen a sign which has caused the 
flesh of his
back to break out in hard ridges of gooseflesh.

He walks to the front of the car and puts one hand on its hood. He hears the 
engine ticking
softly to itself as it cools. He hears a jay scream briefly and then shut up. 
There are crickets.
And as far as the soundtrack goes, that's it.

He  has  seen  the  sign,  he  passes  it,  and  suddenly  he  is  in  Derry  
again.  After  twenty-five
years Richie 'Trashmouth' Tozier has come home. He has  —

Burning agony suddenly needles into his eyes, breaking his thought cleanly off. 
He utters a
strangled little shout and his hands fly up to his face. The only time he felt 
anything even

remotely like this burning pain was when he got an eyelash caught under one of 
his contacts
in college — and that was only in one eye. This terrible pain is in both.

Before he can reach even halfway to his face, the pain is gone.

He  lowers  his  hands  again  slowly,  thoughtfully,  and  looks  down  Route  
7.  He  left  the
turnpike at the Etna-Haven exit, wanting, for some reason he doesn't 
understand, not to come
in by the turnpike, which was still under construction in the Derry area when 
he and his folks
shook the dust of this weird little town from their heels and headed out for 
the Midwest. No —
the turnpike would have been quicker, but it would have been wrong.

So he had driven along Route 9 through the sleeping nestle of buildings that 
was Haven
Village, then turned off on Route 7. And as he went the day grew steadily 
brighter.

Now  this  sign.  It  was  the  same  sort  of  sign  which  marked  the  
borders  of  more  than  six
hundred Maine towns, but how this one had squeezed his heart!

Penobscot
County

D
E
R
R
Y

Maine

Beyond  that   an   Elks   sign;  a  Rotary  Club  sign;  and  completing  the  
trinity,  a  sign
proclaiming the fact that DERR Y LIONS ROAR FO R THE UNITED FUND! Past that one 
there is just
Route 7 again, continuing on in a straight line between bulking banks of pine 
and spruce. In
this silent light  as  the  day  steadies  itself  those  trees  look  as  
dreamy  as  blue-gray cigarette
smoke stacked on the moveless air of a sealed room.

Derry, he thinks. Derry, God help me. Derry. Stone the crows.


Here  he  is  on  Route  7.  Five  miles  up,  if  time  or  tornado has not 
carried it away in the
intervening years, will be the Rhulin Farms, where his mother bought all of 
their eggs and
most of their vegetables. Two miles beyond that Route 7 became Witcham Road and 
of course
Witcham  Road  eventually  became  Witcham  Street, can you gimme hallelujah 
world without
end amen. And somewhere along there between the Rhulin Farms and town he would 
drive
past the Bowers place and then the Hanlon place. A mile or so after Hanlon's he 
would see
the first glitter of the Kenduskeag  and the first spreading tangle of poison 
green. The lush
lowlands that had been known for some reason as the Barrens.

I  really  don't  know  if  I  can  face  all  of  that,  Richie thinks.  I  
mean,  let's  tell  the  truth  here,
folks. I just don't know if I can.

The  whole  previous  night  has  passed  in  a  dream  for  him.  As  long  as 
 he  continued

travelling, moving forward, making miles, the dream went on. But now he has 
stopped — or
rather the sign has stopped him — and he has awakened to a strange truth: the 
dream was
the reality. Derry is the reality.

It seems he just cannot stop remembering, he thinks the memories will 
eventually drive him
mad, and now he bites down on his lip and puts his hands together palm to palm, 
tight, as if
to keep himself from flying apart. He feels that he  will fly apart, and soon. 
There seems to be
some mad part of him which actually looks forward to what may be coming, but 
most of him
only wonders how he's going to get through the next few days. He —

And now his thoughts break off again.

A deer is walking out into the road. He can hear the light thud of its 
spring-soft hoofs on
the tar.

Richie's breath stops in mid-exhale, then slowly starts again. He looks, 
dumbfounded, part
of  him  thinking  that  he  never  saw  anything  like this on Rodeo Drive. No 
 — he'd needed to
come back home to see something like this.

It's a doe ('Doe, a deer, a female deer,' a Voice chants merrily in his head). 
She's out of the
woods on the right and pauses in the middle of Route 7, front legs on one side 
of the broken
white line, rear legs on the other. Her dark eyes regard Rich Tozier mildly. He 
reads interest
in those eyes but no fear.

He looks at her in wonder, thinking she's an omen or a portent or some sort of 
Madame
Azonka shit like that. And then, quite unexpectedly, a memory of Mr Nell comes 
to him. What
a start he had given them that day, busting in on them in the wake of Bill's 
story and Ben's
story and Eddie's story! The whole bunch of them had damn near gone up to 
heaven.

Now, looking at the deer, Rich draws in a deep breath and finds himself 
speaking in one of
his  Voices  .  .  .  but  for  the  first  time  in  twenty-five years or more 
it is the Voice of the Irish
Cop, one he had incorporated into his repertoire after that memorable day. It 
comes rolling
out of the morning silence like a great big bowling ball  — it is louder and 
bigger than Richie
would ever have believed:

'Jay-sus  Christ  on  a  jumped-up  chariot-driven crutch! What's a nice girrul 
like you doin out
in  this  wilderness,  deer?  Jaysus  Christ!  You  be  gettin  on  home  
before  I  decide  to  tell  Father
O'Staggers on ye!'

Before the echoes have died away, before the first shocked jay can begin 
scolding him for

his sacrilege, the doe flicks her tail at him like a truce flag and disappears 
into the smoky-
looking firs on the left side of the road, leaving only a small pile of 
steaming pellets behind to
show that, even at thirty-seven, Richie Tozier is still capable of Getting Off 
A Good One from
time to time.

Richie begins to laugh. He is only chuckling at first, and then his own 
ludicrousness strikes
him —  standing  here  in  the  dawnlight  of  a  Maine  morning,  thirty-four 
hundred miles from
home,  shouting  at  a  deer  in  the  accents  of  an  Irish  cop.  The  
chuckles  become  a  string  of
giggles, the giggles become guffaws, the guffaws become howls, and he is 
finally reduced to


holding on to his car while tears roll down his face and he wonders dimly if 
he's going to wet
his  pants  or  what.  Every  time  he  starts  to  get  control  of  himself  
his  eyes fix on that little
clump of pellets and he goes off into fresh gales.

Snorting and snickering, he is at last able to get back into the driver's seat 
and restart the
Mustang's  engine.  An  Orinco  chemical-fertilizer truck snores by in a blast 
of wind.  After it
passes him, Rich pulls out and heads for Derry again. He feels better now, in 
control . . . or
maybe it's just that he's moving again, making miles, and the dream has 
reasserted itself.

He starts thinking about Mr Nell again — Mr Nell and that  day by the dam. Mr 
Nell had
asked them who thought this little trick up. He can see the five of them 
looking uneasily at
each other, and remembers how Ben finally stepped forward, cheeks pale and eyes 
downcast,
face  trembling  all  over  as  he  fought  grimly   to  keep  from  
blubbering.  Poor  kid  probably
thought  he  was  going  to  get  five-to-ten  in  Shawshank  for  
back-flooding  the  drains  on
Witcham Street, Rich thinks now, but he had owned up to it just the same. And 
by doing that
he    had  forced  the  rest  of  them  to  come  forward  and  back  him  up.  
It  was  either  that  or
consider themselves bad guys. Cowards. All the things their TV heroes were not. 
And that
had welded them together, for better or worse. Had apparently welded them 
together for the
last twenty-seven years. Sometimes events are dominoes. The first knocks over 
the second, the
second knocks over the third, and there you are.

When, Richie wonders, did it become too late to turn back? When he and Stan 
showed up
and pitched in, helping to build the dam? When Bill told them how the school 
picture of his
brother  had  turned  its  head  and  winked?  Maybe  .  .  .  but  to  Rich  
Tozier  it  seems  that  the
dominoes really began to fall when Ben Hanscom stepped forward and said' I 
showed them

2

how to do it. It's my fault.'

Mr  Nell  simply  stood  there  looking  at  him,  lips  pressed  together,  
hands  on  his  creaking
black leather belt. He looked from Ben to the spreading pool behind the dam and 
then back to
Ben  again,  his  face  that  of  a  man  who  can't  believe  what  he  is  
seeing.  He  was  a  burly
Irishman,  his  hair  a  premature  white,  combed  back  in  neat  waves  
beneath  his  peaked  blue
cap.   His  eyes  were  bright  blue,  his  nose  bright  red.  There  were  
small  nests  of  burst  capillaries
in  his  cheeks.  He  was  a  man  of  no  more  than  medium  height,  but  to 
 the  five  boys  arrayed
before him he looked at least eight feet tall.

Mr  Nell  opened  his  mouth  to  speak,  but  before  he  could.  Bill  
Denbrough  had  stepped  up
beside Ben.

'Ih-Ih-Ih-It  w-wuh-wuh-was  m-my  i-i-i-i-idea,'  he  finally  managed  to  
say.   He  heaved  in  a
gigantic,   gulping   breath   and   as   Mr   Nell   stood   there   regarding 
  him   impassively,   the   sun
tossing  back  imperial  flashes  from  his  badge,  Bill  managed  to  stutter 
 out  the  rest  of  what  he
needed  to  say:  it  wasn't  Ben's  fault;  Ben  just  happened  to  come 
along and show them how to
do better what they were already doing badly.

'Me too,' Eddie said abruptly, and stepped up on Ben's other side.

'What's this "me too"?' Mr Nell asked. 'Is that yer name or yer address, 
buckaroo?'

Eddie  flushed  brightly  —  the  color  went  all  the  way  up  to  the  
roots  of  bis  hair.  'I  was  with
Bill before Ben even came,' he said. 'That was all I meant.'

Richie  stepped  up  next  to  Eddie.  The  idea  that  a  Voice  or  two  
might  cheer  Mr  Nell  up  a

little,  get  him  thinking  jolly  thoughts,  popped  into  his  head.  On  
second  thought  (and  second
thoughts  were,  for  Richie,  extremely  rare  and  wonderful  things),  maybe 
 a  Voice  or  two  might
only  make  things  worse.  Mr  Nell  didn't  look  like  he  was  in  what  
Richie  sometimes  thought  of


as a  chuckalicious mood. In fact, Mr Nell looked like maybe chucks were the 
last thing on his
mind. So he just said, 'I was in on it too,' in a low voice, and then made his 
mouth shut up.

'And me,' Stan said, stepping next to Bill.

Now  the  five  of  them were  standing  before  Mr  Nell  in  a  line.  Ben  
looked  from  one  side  to
the other, more than dazed  —  he was almost stupefied by their support. For a 
moment Richie
thought ole Haystack was going to burst into tears of gratitude.

'Jaysus,'  Mr  Nell  said  again,  and  although  he  sounded  deeply  
disgusted,  his  face suddenly
looked  as  if  it  might  like  to  laugh.  'A  sorrier  bunch  of  boyos  I  
ain't  nivver  seen.  If  yer  folks
knew where you were, I guess there'd be some hot bottoms tonight. I ain't sure 
there won't be
anyway.'

Richie  could  hold  back  no  longer;  his  mouth  simply  fell  open  and  
then  ran  away  like  the
gingerbread man, as it so often did.

'How's  things  back  in  the  auid  country,  Mr  Nell?'  it  bugled.  'Ah,  
yer  a  sight  for  sore  eyes,
sure an begorrah, yer a lovely man, a credit to the auld sod — '

'I'll be a credit to the seat of yer pants in about three seconds, my dear 
little friend,' Mr Nell
said dryly.

Bill turned on him, snarled: 'For G-G-God's s-sake R-R-Richie shuh-shuh-hut 
UP!'

'Good  advice,  Master  William  Denbrough,'  Mr  Nell  said.  'I'll  bet  Zack 
 doesn't  know  you're
down here in the Bar'ns playing amongst the floating turdies, does he?'

Bill dropped his eyes, shook his head. Wild roses burned in his cheeks.
Mr Nell looked at Ben. 'I don't recall your name, son.'

'Ben Hanscom, sir,' Ben whispered.

Mr Nell nodded and looked back at the dam again. 'This was your idea?'
'How to build it, yeah.' Ben's whisper was now nearly inaudible.

'Well,  yer  a  hell  of  an  engineer,  big  boy,  but  you  don't  know  Jack 
 Shit  about  these  here
Bar'ns or the Derry drainage system, do you?'

Ben shook his head.

Not  unkindly,  Mr  Nell  told  him,  'There's  two  parts  to  the  system.  
One  part  carries  solid
human waste  —  shit,  if  I'd  not  be  offendin  yer  tender  ears.  The  
other  part  carries  gray  water

—  water  flushed  from  toilets  or  run  down  the  drains  from  sinks  and  
washin-machines and
showers; it's also the water that runs down the gutters into the city drains.

'Well,  ye've  caused  no  problems  with the solid -waste removal, thank God  
— all of that gets
pumped  into  the  Kenduskeag  a  bit  farther  down.  There's  probably  some  
almighty  big  patties
down  that  way  half  a  mile  dryin  in  the  sun  thanks  to  what  you  
done,  but  you  can  be  pretty
sure that there ain' t shit stickin to anyone's ceiling because of it.

'But  as  for  the  gray  water  .  .  .  well,  there's  no  pumps  for  gray  
water.  That  all  runs  downhill
in  what  the  engineer  boyos  call  gravity  drains.  And  I'll  bet  you  
know  where  all  them  gravity
drains end up, don't you, big boy?'

'Up there,' Ben said. He pointed to the area behind the dam, the area they had 
in large part
submerged.  He  did  this  without  looking  up.  Big  tears  were  beginning  
to  course  slowly  down
his cheeks. Mr Nell pretended not to notice.

'That's  right,  my  large  young  friend.  All  them  gravity  drains  feed  
into  streams  that  feed  into

the  upper  Barrens.  In  fact,  a  good  many  of  them  little  streams  that 
 come  tricklin  down  are
gray  water  and  gray  water  only,  comin  out  of  drams  you  can't  even  
see,  they're  so  deep-
buried in the underbrush. The shit goes one way and everythin else goes the 
other, God praise
the  clever  mind  o  man,  and  did  it  ever  cross  yer  minds  that  you'd  
spent  the  whole  live-long
day paddlin around in Derry's pee an old wash-water?'

Eddie suddenly began to gasp and had to use his aspirator.

'What  you  did  was  back  water  up  into  about  six  o  the  eight  central 
 Catch-basins that serve
Witcham  and  Jackson  and  Kansas  and  four  or  five  little  streets  that  
run  between  em.'  Mr  Nell


fixed  Bill  Denbrough  with  a  dry  glance.  'One  of  em  serves  yer  own  
hearth  an  home,  young
Master  Denbrough.  So  there  we  are,  with  sinks  that  won't  drain,  
washin-machines that won't
drain, outflow pipes pourin merrily into cellars — '

Ben  let  out  a  dry  barking  sob.  The  others  turned  toward  him  and  
then  looked  away.  Mr
Nell  put  a  large  hand  on  the  boy's  shoulder.  It  was  callused  and  
hard,  but  at  the  moment  it
was also gentle.

'Now, now. No need to take on, big boy. Maybe it ain't that bad, at least not 
yet; could be I
exaggerated  just  a  mite  to  make  sure  you  took  my  point.  They  sent  
me  down  to  see  if  a  tree
blew down across the stream. That happens from time to time. There's no need 
for anyone but
me  and  you  five  to  know  it  wasn't  just  that.  We've  got  more 
important  things  to  worry  about
in  town  these  days  than  a  little  backed-up  water.  I'll  say  on  my  
report  that  I  located  the
blowdown  and  some  boys  came  along  and  helped  me  shift  it  out  o  the 
 way  o  the  water.  Not
that I'll mention ye by name. Ye'Il not be gettin any citations for 
dam-building in the Bar'ns.'

He  surveyed  the  five  of  them.  Ben  was  furiously  wiping  his  eyes  
with  his  handkerchief;
Bill  was  looking  thoughtfully  at  the  dam;  Eddie  was  holding  his  
aspirator  in  one  hand;  Stan
stood  close  by  Richie  with  one  hand  on  Richie's  arm,  ready  to  
squeeze   — hard  —  if Richie
should show the slightest sign of having anything to say other than thank you 
very much.

'You  boys  got  no  business  at  all  in  a  dirty  place  like  this,'  Mr  
Nell  went  on.  'There's
probably  sixty  different  kinds  o  disease  breeding  down  here.'  Breeding 
 came out  braidin,  as
in  what  a  girl  may  do  with  her  hair  in  the  morning.  'Dump  down  
one  way,  streams  full  of  piss
an  gray  water,  muck  an  slop,  bugs  an  brambles,  quick-mud . . . you got 
no business at all in a
dirty  place  like  this.  Four  clean  city  parks  for  you  boyos  to  be  
playin  ball  in  all  the  day  long
and I catch you down here. Jaysus Christ!'

'Wuh-Wuh-We   l-l-l-like  it  d-d-down  h-here,'  Bill  said  suddenly  and  
defiantly.  'Wh-When
w-w-we cuh-hum down h-here, nuh-ho-hobody gives us a-a-any stuh-stuh-hatic.'

'What'd he say?' Mr Nell asked Eddie.

'He  said  when  we  come  down  here  nobody  gives  us  any  static,'  Eddie  
said.  His  voice  was
thin  and  whistling,  but  it  was  also  unmistakably  fir m.  'And  he's  
right.  When  guys  like  us  go  to
the  park  and  say  we  want  to  play  baseball,  the  other  guys  say  
sure,  you  want  to  be  second
base or third?'

Richie cackled. 'Eddie Gets Off A Good One! And . . . You Are There!'

Mr Nell swung his head to look at him.

Richie shrugged. 'Sorry. But he's right. And Bill's right, too. We like it down 
here.'

Richie   thought   Mr   Nell   would   become   angry   again   at   that,   
but   the   white-haired  cop
surprised  him  —  surprised  them  all  —  with  a  smile.  'Ayuh,'  he  said. 
  'I  liked  it  down  here
meself  as  a  boy,  so  I  did.  And  I'll  not  forbid  ye.  But  hark  to  
what  I'm  tellin  you  now.'  He
leveled a finger at them and they all looked at him soberly. 'If ye come down 
here to play ye
come in a gang like ye are now. Together. Do you understand me?'

They nodded.

That means together  all  the  time.  No hide-an-seek games where yer split up 
one an one an
one. You all know what's goin on in this town. All the same, I don't forbid you 
to come down
here,  mostly  because  ye'd  be  down  here  anyway.  But  for  yer  own  
good,  here  or  anywhere
around,  gang  together.'  He  looked  at  Bill.  'Do  you  disagree  with  me, 
 young  Master  Bill
Denbrough?'

'N-N-No, sir,' Bill said. 'W-We'll stay tuh-tuh-tuh — '
'That's good enough for me,' Mr Nell said. 'Yer hand on it.'
Bill stuck out his hand and Mr Nell shook it.

Richie shook off Stan and stepped forward.

'Sure  an  begorrah,  Mr  Nell,  yer  a  prince  among  men,  y'are!  A  foine  
man!  A  foine,  foine
man!'  He  stuck  out  his  own  hand,  seized  the  Irishman's  huge  paw,  
and  flagged  it  furiously,


grinning  all  the  time.  To  the  bemused  Mr  Nell  the  boy  looked  like  
a  hideous  parody  of
Franklin D. Roosevelt.

'Thank  you,  boy,'  Mr  Nell  said,  retrieving  his  hand.  'Ye  want  to  
work  on  that  a  bit.  As  of
now, ye sound about as Irish as Groucho Marx.'

The  other  boys  laughed,  mostly  in  relief.  Even  as  he  was  laughing,  
Stan  shot  Richie  a
reproachful look: Grow up, Richie!

Mr Nell shook hands all around, gripping Ben's last of all.

'Ye've  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of  but  bad  judgment,  big  boy.  As  for  
that  there  .  .  .  did  you
see how to do it in a book?'

Ben shook his head.
'Just figured it out?'
'Yes, sir.'

'Well  if  that  don't  beat  Harry!  Ye'Il  do  great  things  someday,  I've  
no  doubt.  But  the  Barrens
isn't  the  place  to  do  em.'  He  looked  around  thoughtfully.  'No  great  
thing  will  ever  be  done
here.  Nasty  place.'  He  sighed.  'Tear  it  down,  dear  boys.  Tear  it  
right  down.  I  believe  I'll  just
sit me down in the shade o this bush here and bide a wee as you do it.' He 
looked ironically at
Richie as he said this last, as if inviting another manic outburst.

'Yes,  sir,'  Richie  said  humbly,  and  that  was  all.  Mr  Nell  nodded,  
satisfied,  and  the  boys  fell
to  work,  once  again  turning  to  Ben  —  this  time  to  show  them the 
quickest way to tear down
what  he  had  shown  them  how  to  build.  Meanwhile,  Mr  Nell  removed  a  
brown  bottle  from
inside  his  tunic  and  helped  himself  to  a  large  gulp.  He  coughed,  
then  blew  out  breath  in  an
explosive sigh and regarded the boys with watery, benign eyes.

'And  what  might  ye  have  in  yer  bottle,  sor?'  Richie  asked  from  the  
place  where  he  was
standing knee-deep in the water.

'Richie, can't you ever shut up?' Eddie hissed.

'This?'  Mr  Nell  regarded  Richie  with  mild  surprise  and  looked   at the 
bottle again. It had no
label  of  any  kind  on  it.  'This  is  the  cough  medicine  of  the  gods, 
my boy. Now let's see if you
can bend yer back anywhere near as fast as you can wag yer tongue.'

3

Bill  and  Richie  were  walking  up  Witcham  Street  together  later  on.  
Bill  was  pushing  Silver;
after  first  building  and  then  tearing  down  the  dam,  he  simply  did  
not  have  the  energy  it  would
have  taken  to  get  Silver  up  to  cruising  speed.  Both  boys  were  
dirty,  dishevelled,  and  pretty
well used up.

Stan  had  asked  them  if  they  wanted  to  come  over  to  his  house  and  
play  Monopoly  or
Parcheesi  or  something,  but  none  of  them  wanted  to.  It  was  getting  
late.  Ben,  sounding  tired
and  depressed,  said  he  was  going  to  go  home  and  see  if  anybody  had 
 returned  his  library
books.  He  had some hope of this, since the Derry Library insisted on writing 
in the borrower's
street  address  as  well  as  his  name  on  each  book's  pocket  card.  
Eddie  said  he  was  going  to
watch The Rock Show on TV because Neil Sedaka was going to be on and he wanted 
to see if
Neil  Sedaka  was  a  Negro.  Stan  told  Eddie  not  to  be  so  stupid,  Neil 
 Sedaka  was  white,  you
could  tell  he  was  white  just  listening  to  him.  Eddie  claimed  you  
couldn't  tell  anything  by
listening  to  them;  until  last  year  he  had  been  positive  Chuck  Berry  
was  white,  but  when  he
was on Bandstand he turned out to be a Negro.

'My mother  still  thinks  he's  white,  so  that's  one  good  thing,'  Eddie  
said.  'If  she  finds  out
he's a Negro, she probably won't let me listen to his songs anymore.'

Stan  bet  Eddie  four  funnybooks  that  Neil  Sedaka  was  white,  and  the  
two  of  them  set  off
together for Eddie's house to settle the issue.


And  here  were  Bill  and  Richie,  headed  in  a  direction  which  would  
bring  them  to  Bill's
house  after  awhile,  neither  of  them  talking  much.  Richie  found  
himself  thinking  about  Bill's
story  of  the  picture  that  had  turned  its  head  and  winked.  And  in  
spite  of  his  tiredness,  an  idea
came to him. It was crazy . . . but it also held a certain attraction.

'Billy me boy,' he said. 'Let's stop for awhile. Take five. I'm dead.'

'No  such  l-l-luck,'  Bill  said,  but  he  stopped,  laid  Silver  carefully  
down  on  the  edge  of  the
green  Theological  Seminary  lawn,  and  the  two  boys  sat  on  the  wide  
stone  steps  which  led  up
to the rambling red Victorian structure.

'What  a  d-d-day,'  Bill  said  glumly.  There  were  dark  purplish  patches  
under  his  eyes.  His

face  looked  white  and  used.  'You  better  call  your  house  when  w-we 
get to muh-mine. So your
f-folks don't go b-b-bananas.'

'Yeah. You bet. Listen, Bill — '

Richie  paused  for  a  moment,  thinking  about  Ben's  mummy,  Eddie's  
leper,  and  whatever
Stan  had  almost  told  them.  For  a  moment  something  swam  in  his  own  
mind,  something  about
that  Paul  Bunyan  statue  out  by  the  City  Center.  But  that  had  only  
been  a  dream,  for God's
sake.

He pushed away such irrelevant thoughts and plunged.

'Let's go up to your house, what do you say? Take a look in Georgie's room. I 
want to see
that picture.'

Bill  looked  at  Richie,  shocked.  He  tried  to  speak  but  could  not;  
his  stress  was  simply  too
great. He settled for shaking his head violently.

Richie said, 'You heard Eddie's story. And Ben's. Do you believe what they 
said?'

'I don't nuh-nuh-know. I th-hink they m-m-must have sub-seen suh-homething.'

'Yeah.  Me  too.  All  the  kids  that've  been  killed  around  here,  I  
think  all  of  them would have
had  stories  to  tell,  too.  The  only  difference  between  Ben  and  Eddie  
and  those  other  kids  is
that Ben and Eddie didn't get caught.'

Bill  raised  his  eyebrows  but  showed  no  great  surprise.  Richie  had  
supposed  Bill  would
have taken it that far himself. He couldn't talk so good, but he was no dummy.

'So now dig on this awhile, Big Bill,' Richie said. 'A guy could dress up in a 
clown suit and

kill  kids.  I  don't  know  why  he'd   want  to,  but  nobody  can  tell  why 
 crazy  people  do  things,
right?'

'Ruh-Ruh-Ruh — '

'Right.  It's  not  that  much  different  than  the  Joker  in  a  Batman  
funnybook.'  Just  hearing  his
ideas   out   loud   excited   Richie.   He   wondered   briefly   if   he   
was   actually   trying   to   prove
something  or  just  throwing  up  a  smokescreen  of  words  so  he  could  
see  that  room,  that
picture.  In  the  end  it  probably  didn't  matter.  In  the  end  maybe  
just  seeing  Bill's  eyes  light  up
with their own excitement was enough.

'B-B-But wh-wh-where does the pih-hicture fit i-i-in?'
'What do you think, Billy?'

In  a  low  voice,  not  looking  at  Richie,  Bill  said  he  didn't  think  
it  had  anything  to  do  with  the
murders. 'I think it was Juh-Juh-Georgie's g-ghost.'

'A ghost in a picture?' Bill nodded.

Richie  thought  about  it.  The  idea  of  ghosts  gave  his  child's  mind  
no  trouble  at  all.  He  was
sure  there  were  such  things.  His  parents  were  Methodists,  and  Richie  
went  to  church  every
Sunday   and   to   Thursday-night  Methodist  Youth  Fellowship  meetings  as  
well.  He  knew  a
great  deal  of  the  Bible  already,  and  he  knew  the  Bible  believed  in  
all  sorts  of  weird  stuff.
According  to  the  Bible,  God  Himself  was  at  least  one -third  Ghost,  
and  that  was  just  the
beginning.  You  could  tell  the  Bible  believed  in  demons, because  Jesus  
threw  a  bunch  of  them
out            of  this  guy.  Real  chuckalicious  ones,  too.  When  Jesus  
asked  the  guy  who  had  them  what
his   name   was,   the   demons   answered   and   told   Him   to   go   join 
  the   Foreign   Legion.   Or


something  like  that.  The  Bible  believed  in  witches,  or  else  why  
would  it  say  'Thou  shall  not
suffer  a  witch  to  live'?  Some  of  the  stuff  in  the  Bible  was  even  
better  than  the  stuff  in  the
horror  comics.  People  getting  boiled  in  oil  or  hanging  themselves  
like  Judas  Iscariot;  the
story  about  how  wicked  King  Ahaz  fell  off  the  tower  and  all  the  
dogs  came  and  licked  up his
blood;  the  mass  baby-murders  that  had  accompanied  the  births  of  both  
Moses  and  Jesus
Christ;  guys  who  came  out  of  their  graves  or  flew  into  the  air;  
soldiers  who  witched  down
walls;  prophets  who  saw  the  future  and  fought  monsters.  All  of  that  
was  in  the  Bible  and
every  word  of  it  was  true —  so  said  Reverend  Craig  and  so  said  
Richie's  folks  and  so  said
Richie.  He  was  perfectly  willing  to  credit  the  possibility  of  Bill's  
explanation;  it  was  the logic
which troubled him.

'But you said you were scared. Why would George's ghost want to scare you, 
Bill?'

Bill   put   a   hand   to   his   mouth   and   wiped   it.   The   hand   was 
  trembling   slightly.   'H-He's
probably  muh-muh-mad  at  m-m-me.  For  g-getting  him  kin-hilled.  It  was  
my  fuh-fuh-fault.  I
s-sent  him  out  with  the  buh-buh-buh  —  '  He  was  incapable  of  getting 
 the  word  out,  so  he
rocked  his  hand  in  the  air  instead.  Richie  nodded  to  show  he  
understood  what  Bill  meant  .  .  .
but not to indicate agreement.

'I  don't  think  so,'  he  said.  'If  you  stabbed  him  in  the  back  or  
shot  him,  that  would  be
different.  Or  even  if  you,  like,  gave  him  a  loaded  gun  that  
belonged  to  your  dad  to  play  with
and  he  shot  himself  with  it.  But  it  wasn't  a  gun,  it  was  just  a  
boat.  You  didn't want to hurt
him;  in  fact'  —  Richie  raised  one  finger  and  waggled  it  at  Bill  in 
 a  lawyerly  way   —  'you just
wanted the kid to have a little fun, right?'

Bill  thought  back  —  thought  desperately  hard.  What  Richie  had  just  
said  had  made  him

feel  better  about George's death for the first time in months, but there was 
a part of him which
insisted  with  quiet  firmness  that  he  was  not  supposed  to  feel  
better.  Of  course  it was your
fault, that part of him insisted; not entirely, maybe, but at least partly.

If not, how come there's that cold place on the couch between your mother and 
father? If
not, how come no one ever says anything at the supper table anymore? Now it's 
just knives
and  forks  rattling  until  you  can't  take  it  anymore  and  ask  if  you  
can  be  eh-eh-eh-excused,
please.

It was as if  he were the ghost, a presence that spoke and moved but was not 
quite heard or
seen, a thing vaguely sensed but still not accepted as real.

He  did  not  like  the  thought  that  he  was  to  blame,  but  the  only  
alternative he could think of
to  explain  their  behavior  was  much  worse:  that  all  the  love  and  
attention  his  parents  had  given
him  before  had  somehow  been  the  result  of  George's  presence,  and  
with  George  gone  there
was  nothing  for  him  .  .  .  and  all  of  that  had  happened at random, 
for no reason at all. And if
you put your ear to that door, you could hear the winds of madness blowing 
outside.

So  he  went  over  what  he  had  done  and  felt  and  said  on  the  day  
Georgie  had  died,  part  of
him hoping that what Richie had said  was true, part of him hoping just as hard 
it was not. He
hadn't  been  a  saint  of  a  big  brother  to  George,  that  much  was  
certain.  They  had  had  fights,
plenty of them. Surely there had been one that day?

No. No fight. For one thing, Bill himself had still been feeling too punk to 
work up  a really
good quarrel with George. He had been sleeping, dreaming something, dreaming 
about some

(turtle)

funny  little  animal,  he  couldn't  remember  just  what,  and  he  had  
awakened  to  the  sound  of
the  diminishing  rain  outside  and  George  muttering  unhappily  to  himself 
 in  the  dining  room.
He  asked  George  what  was  wrong.  George  came  in  and  said  he  was  
trying  to  make  a  paper
boat  from  the  directions  in  his  Best  Book  of  Activities   but it kept 
coming out wrong. Bill told
George  to  bring  his  book.  And  sitting  next  to  Richie  on  the  steps  
leading  up  to  the  seminary,
he remembered how Georgie's eyes lit up when the paper boat came out right, and 
how good


that  look  had  made  him  feel,  like  Georgie  thought  he  was  a  real  
hot  shit,  a straight shooter,
the guy who could do it until it got done. Making him feel, in short, like a 
big brother.

The  boat  had  killed  George,  but  Richie  was  right  —  it  hadn't  been  
like  handing  George  a
loaded gun to play with. Bill hadn't known what was going to happen. No way he 
could.

He  drew  a  deep,  shuddering  breath,  feeling  something  like  a  rock  —  
something he hadn't
even  known  was  there  —  go  rolling  off  his  chest.  All  at  once  he  
felt  better,  better  about
everything.

He opened his mouth to tell Richie this and burst into tears instead.

Alarmed,  Richie  put  an  arm  around  Bill's  shoulders  (after  taking  a  
quick  glance  around  to
make sure no one who might mistake them for a couple of fagolas was looking).

'You're okay,' he said. 'You're okay, Billy, right? Come on. Turn off the 
waterworks.'

'I didn't wuh-wuh-want h-him t-to  g-g-get kuh-hilled!' Bill sobbed.  'TH-THAT 
WUH-WUH-
WASN'T ON MY M-M-M-MIND AT UH-UH-ALL!'

'Christ,  Billy,  I  know  it  wasn't,'  Richie  said.  'If  you'd  wanted  to  
scrub  him,  you  woulda

pushed  him  downstairs  or  something.'  Richie  patted  Bill's  shoulder  
clumsily  and  gave  him  a
hard little hug before letting go. 'Come on, quit bawlin, okay? You sound like 
a baby.'

Little  by  little  Bill  stopped.  He  still  hurt,  but  this  hurt  seemed  
cleaner,  as  if  he  had  cut
himself  open  and  taken  out  something  that  was  rotting  inside  him.  
And  that  feeling  of  relief
was still there.

'I-I  didn't  w-want  him  to  get  kuh-kuh-killed,'  Bill  repeated,  'and  ih 
-if  y-y-you  t-tell  anybody
I w-was c-c-cryin, I'll b-b-bust your n-n-nose.

'I  won't  tell,'  Richie  said,  'don't  worry.  He  was  your  brother,  for  
gosh  sake.  If  my  brother

got killed, I'd cry my fuckin head off.'

'Yuh-Yuh-You d-don't have a buh-brother.'
'Yeah, but if I did.'

'Y-You w-w-would?'

'Course.'  Richie  paused,  fixing  Bill  with  a  wary  eye,  trying  to  
decide  if  Bill  was  really  over
it.  He  was  still  wiping  his  red  eyes  with  his  snotrag,  but  Richie  
decided  he  probably  was.  'All
I  meant  was  that  I  don't  know  why  George  would  want to haunt you. So 
maybe the picture's
got something to do with . . . well, with that other. The clown.'

'Muh-Muh-Maybe G-G-George d-d-doesn't nuh-nuh-know. Maybe h-he th-thinks — '

Richie  understood  what  Bill  was  trying  to  say  and  waved  it  aside.  
'After  you  croak  you
know  everything  people  ever  thought  about  you,  Big  Bill.'  He  spoke  
with  the  indulgent  air  of
a  great  teacher  correcting  a  country  bumpkin's  fatuous  ideas.  'It's  
in  the  Bible.  It  says,  "Yea,
even  though  we  can't  see  too  much  in  the  mirror right now, we will see 
through it like it was a
window  after  we  die."  That's  in  First  Thessalonians  or  Second  
Babylonians,  I  forget  which.  It
means — '

'I suh-suh-see what it m-m-means,' Bill said.
'So what do you say?'

'Huh?'

'Let's  go up to his room and take a look. Maybe we'll get a clue about who's 
killing all the
kids.'

'I'm s-s-scared to.'

'I  am  too,'  Richie  said,  thinking  it  was  just  more  sand,  something  
to  say  that  would  get  Bill
moving,  and  then  something  heavy  turned  over  in  his  midsection  and  
he  discovered  it  was
true: he was scared green.

4


The two boys slipped into the Denbrough house like ghosts.

Bill's father was still at work. Sharon Denbrough was in the kitchen, reading a 
paperback at
the  kitchen  table.  The  smell  of  supper  —  codfish  —  drifted  out  into 
 the  front  hall.  Richie
called home so his mom would know he wasn't dead, just at Bill's.

'Someone  there?'  Mrs  Denbrough  called  as  Richie  put  the  phone  down.  
They  froze,  eyeing
each other guiltily. Then Bill called: 'M-Me, Mom. And R-R-R-R-R — '

'Richie Tozier, ma'am,' Richie yelled.

'Hello,  Richie,'  Mrs  Denbrough  called  back,  her  voice  disconnected,  
almost  not  there  at  all.
'Would you like to stay for supper?'

'Thanks, ma'am, but my mom's gonna pick me up in half an hour or so.'
Tell her I said hello, won't you?'

'Yes ma'am, I sure will.'

'C-Come on,' Bill whispered. 'That's enough s-small talk.'

They  went  upstairs  and  down  the  hall  to  Bill's  room.  It  was  
boy-neat, which meant it  would
have  given  the  mother  of  the  boy  in  question  only  a  mild  headache  
to  look  at.  The  shelves
were  stuffed  with  a  helter-skelter  collection  of  books  and  comics.  
There  were  more  comics,
plus a few models and toys and a stack of 45s, on the desk. There was also an 
old Underwood
office  model  typewriter  on  it.  His  folks  had  given  it  to  him  for  
Christmas  two  years  ago,  and
Bill  sometimes  wrote  stories  on  it.  He  did  this  a  bit  more  
frequently  since  George's  death.  The
pretending seemed to ease his mind.

There  was  a  phonograph  on  the  floor  across  from  the  bed  with  a  
pile  of  folded  clothes
stacked  on  the  lid.  Bill  put  the  clothes  in  the  drawers  of  his  
bureau  and  then  took  the  records
from   the   desk.   He   shuffled   through   them,   picking   half   a   
dozen.   He   put   them   on   the
phonograph's  fat  spindle  and  turned  the  machine  on.  The  Fleetwoods  
started  singing  'Come
Softly Darling.'

Richie held his nose.

Bill  grinned  in  spite  of  his  thumping  heart.  'Th-They  d-don't  
luh-luh-hike  rock  and  r-roll,'
he  said.  'They  g-gave  me  this  wuh-one  for  my  b-b-birthday.  Also  two  
P-Pat  B-B-Boone
records  and  Tuh-Tuh-Tommy  Sands.  I  keep  L-L-Little  Ruh-Richard  and  
Scuh-hreamin  J-  Jay
Hawkins  for  when  they're  not  h-here.  But  if  she  hears  the  m-m-music 
she'll th-think  we're  i-in
m-my room. C-C-Come o-on.'

George's  room  was  across  the  hall.  The  door  was  shut.  Richie  looked  
at  it  and  licked  his
lips.

'They  don't  keep  it  locked?'  he  whispered  to  Bill.  Suddenly  he  found 
 himself  hoping  it  was

locked. Suddenly he was having trouble believing this had been his idea.

Bill,  his  face  pale,  shook  his  head  and  turned  the  knob.  He  stepped 
 in  and  looked  back  at
Richie.   After   a   moment   Richie   followed.   Bill   shut   the   door   
behind   them,   muffling   the
Fleetwoods. Richie jumped a little at the soft snick of the latch.

He  looked  around,  fearful  and  intensely  curious  at  the  same  tune.  
The  first  thing  he  noticed
was  the  dry  mustiness  of  the  air  —  No  one's  opened  a  window  in  
here  for  a  long  time,  he
thought. Heck, no one's  breathed in  here  for  a  long  time. That's really 
what it feels like. He
shuddered a little at the thought and licked his lips again.

His  eye  fell  on  George's  bed,  and  he  thought  of  George  sleeping  now 
 under  a  comforter  of
earth  in  Mount  Hope  Cemetery.  Rotting  there.  His  hands  not  folded  
because  you  needed  two
hands to do the old folding routine, and George had been buried with only one.

A little sound escaped Richie's throat. Bill turned and looked at him 
enquiringly.

'You're  right,'  Richie  said  huskily.  'It's  spooky  in  here.  I  don't  
see  how  you  could  stand  to
come in alone.'

'H-He was my bruh-brother,' Bill said simply. 'Sometimes I w-w-want to, is 
a-all.'


There  were  posters  on  the  walls  —  little-kid posters. One showed Tom 
Terrific, the cartoon
character  on  Captain  Kangaroo's  program.  Tom  was  springing  over  the  
head  and  clutching
hands  of  Crabby  Appleton,  who  was,  of  course,  Rotten  to  the  Core.  
Another  showed  Donald
Duck's  nephews,  Huey,  Louie,  and  Dewie,  marching  off  into  the  
wilderness  in  their  Junior
Woodchucks   coonskin  caps.  A  third,  which  George  had  colored  himself,  
showed  Mr  Do
holding     up  traffic  so  a  bunch  of  little  kids  headed  for  school  
could  cross  the  street.  MR DO
SAYS WAIT FOR THE CROSSING GUARD!, it said underneath.

Kid  wasn't  too  cool  about  staying  in  the lines,  Richie thought, and 
then shuddered. The kid
was  never  going  to  get  any  better  at  it,  either.  Richie  looked  at  
the  table  by  the  window.  Mrs
Denbrough   had   stood   up   all   of   George's   rank-cards   there,   
half-open.  Looking  at  them,
knowing  there  would  never  be  more,  knowing  that  George  had  died  
before  he  could  stay  in
the  lines  when  he  colored,  knowing  his  life  had  ended  irrevocably  
and  eternally  with  only
those  few  kindergarten  and  first-grade  rank-cards,  all  the  idiot  truth 
 of  death  crashed  home  to
Richie  for  the  first  time.  It  was  as  if  a  large  iron  safe  had  
fallen  into  his  brain  and  buried  itself
there.  I  could  die!  his  mind  screamed  at  him  suddenly  in  tones  of  
betrayed  horror.   Anybody
could! Anybody could!

'Boy oh boy,' he said in a shaky voice. He could manage no more.
'Yeah,' Bill said in a near-whisper. He sat down on George's bed. 'Look.'

Richie  followed  Bill's  pointing  finger  and  saw  the  photo  album  lying  
closed  on  the  floor.

MY PHOTOGRAPHS, Richie read. GEORGE ELMER DENBROUGH, AGE 6.

Age  6!  his  mind  shrieked  in  those  same  tones  of  shrill  betrayal.  
Age  6  forever!  Anybody
could! Shit! Fucking anybody!

'It was oh-oh-open,' Bill said. 'B-Before.'

'So  it  closed,'  Richie  said  uneasily.  He  sat  down  on  the  bed  beside 
 Bill  and  looked at the
photo album. 'Lots of books close on their own.'

'The p-p-pages,  maybe,  but  n-not the  cuh-cuh-cover. It  c-closed itself.' 
He looked at Richie

solemnly,  his  eyes  very  dark  in  his  pale,  tired  face.  'B-But  it  
wuh-wuh-wants  y-you  to  oh-
open it up again. That's what I th-think.'

Richie  got  up  and  walked  slowly  over  to  the  photograph  album.  It  
lay  at  the  base  of  a

window   screened   with   light   curtains.   Looking   out,   he   could   
see   the   apple   tree   in   the
Denbrough back yard. A swing rocked slowly back and forth from one gnarled, 
black limb.

He looked down at George's book again.

A dried maroon stain colored the thickness of the pages in the middle of the 
book. It could
have  been  old  ketchup.  Sure;  it  was  easy  enough  to  see  George  
looking  at  his photo album
while  eating  a  hot  dog  or  a  big  sloppy  hamburger;  he  takes  a  big  
bite  and  some  ketchup
squirts  out  onto  the  book.  Little  kids  were  always  doing  spasmoid  
stuff  like  that.  It  could  be
ketchup. But Richie knew it was not.

He  touched  the  album briefly  and  then  drew  his  hand  away.  It  felt  
cold.  It  had  been  lying  in
a  place  where  the  strong  summer  sunlight,  only  slightly  filtered  by  
those  light  curtains,  would
have been falling on it all day, but it felt cold.

Well,  I'll  just  leave  it  alone,  Richie thought.  I  don't  want  to  look 
 in  his  stupid  old  album
anyway, see a lot of people I don't know. I think maybe I'll tell Bill I 
changed my mind, and
we can go to his room and read comic books for awhile and then I'll go home and 
eat supper
and go to bed early because I'm pretty tired, and when I wake up tomorrow 
morning I'm sure
I'll be sure that stuff was just ketchup. That's just what I'll do. Yowza.

So  he  opened  the  album  with  hands  that  seemed  a  thousand  miles  away 
 from  him,  at  the
end  of  long plastic  arms,  and  he  looked  at  the  faces  and  places  in  
George's  album,  the  aunts,
the  uncles,  the  babies,  the  houses,  the  old  Fords  and  Studebakers,  
the  telephone  lines,  the
mailboxes,  the  picket  fences,  the  wheelruts  with  muddy  water  in  them, 
 the  Ferris  wheel at the
Esty County Fair, the Standpipe, the ruins of the Kitchener Ironworks —


His  fingers  flipped  faster  and  faster  and  suddenly  the  pages  were  
blank.  He  turned  back,
not  wanting  to  but  unable  to  help  himself.  Here  was  a  picture  of  
downtown  Derry,  Main
Street and Canal Street from around 1930, and beyond it there was nothing.

'There's  no  school  picture  of  George  in  here,'  Richie  said.  He  
looked  at  Bill  with  a  mixture
of relief and exasperation. 'What kind of line were you handing me, Big Bill?'

'W-W-What?'

'This  picture  of  downtown  in  the  olden  days  is  the  last  one  in  the 
 book.  All  the  rest  of  the
pages are blank.'

Bill  got  off  the  bed  and  joined  Richie.  He  looked  at  the  picture  
of  downtown  Derry  as  it

had  been  almost  thirty  years   ago,  old -fashioned   cars   and   trucks,  
 old-fashioned  streetlights
with  clusters  of  globes  like  big  white  grapes,  pedestrians  by  the  
Canal  caught  in  mid -stride by
the click of a shutter. He turned the page and, just as Richie had said, there 
was nothing.

No, wait  —  not  quite  nothing.  There  was  one  studio  corner,  the  sort  
of  item  you  use  to
mount photographs.

'It w-w-was here,' he said, and tapped the studio corner. 'L-Look.'
'Jeepers! What do you think happened to it?'

'I d-don't nuh-nuh-know.'

Bill  had  taken  the  album  from  Richie  and  was  now  holding  it  on  his 
 own  lap.  He  turned
back  through  the  pages,  looking  for  George's  picture.  He  gave  up  
after  a  minute,  but  the
pages   did   not.   They   turned   themselves,   flipping   slowly   but   
steadily,   with   big   deliberate
riffling sounds. Bill and Richie looked at each other, wide-eyed, and then back 
down.

It  arrived  at  that  last  picture  again  and  the  pages  stopped  turning. 
 Here  was  downtown

Derry in sepia tones, the city as it had been long before either Bill or Richie 
had been born.

'Say!'  Richie  said  suddenly,  and  took  the  album  back  from  Bill.  
There  was  no  fear  in  his
voice now, and his face was suddenly full of wonder. 'Holy shit!'

'W-What? What ih-ih-is it?'

'Us! That's what it is! Holy-jeezly-crow, look!'

Bill  took  one  side  of  the  book.  Bent  over  it,  sharing  it,  they  
looked  like  boys  at  choir
practice. Bill drew in breath sharply, and Richie knew he had seen it too.

Caught  under  the  shiny  surface  of  this  old  black-and-white  photograph  
two  small  boys
were  walking  along  Main  Street  toward  the  point  where  Main  and  
Center  intersected  — the
point where the Canal went underground for a mile and a half or so. The two 
boys showed up
clearly  against  the  low  concrete  wall  at  the  edge  of  the  Canal. One 
was wearing knickers. The
other  was  wearing  something  that  looked  almost  like  a  sailor  suit.  A 
 tweed  cap  was  perched
on   his   head.   They   were   turned   in   three-quarter   profile   toward 
  the   camera,   looking   at
something  on  the  far  side  of  the  street.  The  boy  in  the  knickers  
was  Richie  Tozier,  beyond  a
doubt. And the boy in the sailor suit and the tweed cap was Stuttering Bill.

They  stared  at  themselves  in  a  picture  almost  three  times  as  old  as 
 they  were,  hypnotized.
The  inside  of  Richie's  mouth  suddenly felt as dry as dust and as smooth as 
glass. A few steps
ahead  of  the  boys  in  the  picture  there  was  a  man  holding  the  brim  
of  his  fedora,  his  topcoat
frozen  forever  as  it  flapped  out  behind  him  in  a  sudden  gust  of  
wind.  There  were  Model-Ts
on the street, a Pierce-Arrow, Chevrolets with running boards.

'I-I-I-I  d-don't  buh-buh-believe  —  '  Bill  began,  and  that  was  when  
the  picture  began  to
move.

The  Model-T  that  should  have  remained  eternally  in  the  middle  of  the 
 intersection  (or  at
least   until   the  chemicals  in  the  old  photo  finally  dissolved  
completely)  passed  through  it,  a
haze  of  exhaust  puffing  out  of  its  tailpipe.  It  went  on  toward  
Up-Mile  Hill.  A  small  white
hand  shot  out  of  the  driver's  side  window  and  signalled  a  left  
turn.  It  swung  onto  Court Street
and passed beyond the photo's white border and so out of sight.


The  Pierce-Arrow,  the  Chevrolets,  the  Packards  —  they  all  began  to  
roll  along,  dodging
their  separate  ways  through  the  intersection.  After  twenty-eight  years  
or  so  the  skirt  of  the
man's  topcoat  finally  finished  its  flap.  He  settled  his  hat  more  
firmly  on  his  head  and  walked
on.

The  two  boys  completed  their  turn,  coming  full-face,  and  a  moment  
later  Richie  saw  what
they  had  been  looking  at  as  a  mangy  dog  came  trotting  across  Center 
Street. The boy in the
sailor suit   —  Bill  —  raised  two  fingers  to  the  corners  of  his  
mouth  and  whistled.  Stunned
beyond  any  ability  to  move  or  think,  Richie  realized  he  could  hear  
the whistle, could  hear  the
cars'   irregular   sewing-machine   engines.   The   sounds  were  faint,  
like  sounds  heard  through
thick glass, but they were there.

The dog glanced toward the two boys, then trotted on. The boys glanced at each 
other and
laughed  like  chipmunks.  They  started  to  walk  on,  and  then  the  Richie 
 in  knickers  grabbed
Bill's arm and pointed toward the Canal. They turned in that direction.

No, Richie thought, don't do that, don't —

They went to the low concrete wall and suddenly the clown popped up over its 
edge like a
horrible  jack-in-the-box,  a  clown  with  Georgie  Denbrough's  face,  his  
hair  slicked  back,  his
mouth  a  hideous  grin  full  of  bleeding  greasepaint,  his  eyes  black  
holes.  One  hand  clutched
three  balloons  on  a  string.  With  the  other  he  reached  for  the  boy  
in  the  sailor  suit  and  seized
his neck.

'Nuh-Nuh-NO!' Bill cried, and reached for the picture.
Reached into the picture!

'Stop it, Bill!' Richie shouted, and grabbed for him.

He  was  almost  too  late.  He  saw  the  tips  of  Bill's  fingers  go  
through  the  surface  of  the
photograph  and  into  that  other  world.  He  saw  the  fingertips  go  from  
the  warm  pink  of  living
flesh  to  the  mummified  cream  color  that  passed  for  white  in  old  
photos.  At  the  same  tune  they
became  small  and  disconnected.  It  was  like  the  peculiar  optical  
illusion  one  sees  when  one
thrusts  a  hand  into  a  glass  bowl  of  water:  the  part  of  the  hand  
underwater  seems  to  be
floating, disembodied, inches away from the part which is still out of the 
water.

A  series  of  diagonal  cuts  slashed  across  Bill's  fingers  at  the  point 
 where  they  ceased being

his  fingers  and  became  photo-fingers;  it  was  as  if  he  had  stuck  his 
 hand  into  the  blades  of  a
fan instead of into a picture.

Richie  seized  his  forearm  and  gave  a  tremendous  yank.  They  both  fell 
 over.  George's
album  hit  the  floor  and  snapped tiself  shut  with  a  dry  clap.  Bill  
stuck  his  fingers  in  his  mouth.
Tears  of  pain  stood  in  his  eyes.  Richie  could  see  blood  running  
down  his  palm  to  his  wrist  in
thin streams.

'Let me see,' he said.

'Hu-Hurts,'  Bill  said.  He  held  his  hand  out  to  Richie,  palm  down.  
There  were  ladderlike
slash-cuts  running  up  his  index,  second,  and  third  fingers.  The  pinky 
 had  barely  touched  the
surface  of  the  photograph  (if  it  had  a  surface),  and  although  that  
finger  had  not  been  cut,  Bill
told Richie later that the nail had been neatly clipped, as if with a pair of 
manicurist's scissors.

'Jesus,  Bill,'  Richie  said.  Band-Aids.  That  was  all  he  could  think  
of.  God,  they  had  been
lucky  —  if  he  hadn't  pulled  Bill's  arm  when  he  did,  his  fingers  
might  have  been  amputated
instead of just badly cut. 'We got to fix those up. Your mother can — '

'Neh-neh-never  m-mind  m-my  muh-huther,'  Bill  said.  He  grabbed  the  
photo  album  again,
spilling drops of blood on the floor.

'Don't  open  that  again!'  Richie  cried,  grabbing  frantically  at  Bill's  
shoulder.  'Jesus  Christ,

Billy, you almost lost your fingers!'

Bill  shook  him  off.  He  flipped  through  the  pages,  and  there  was  a  
grim  determination  on
his  face  that  scared  Richie  more  than  anything  else.  Bill's  eyes  
looked  almost  mad.  His


wounded  fingers  printed  George's  album  with  new  blood   —  it  didn't  
look  like  ketchup  yet,
but when it had a little time to dry it would. Of course it would.

And here was the downtown scene again.

The  Model-T  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  intersection.  The  other  cars  
were  frozen  in  the
places  where  they  had  been  before.  The  man  walking  toward  the  
intersection  held  the  brim  of
his fedora; his coat once more belled out in mid-flap.

The two boys were gone.

There were no boys in the picture anywhere. But —

'Look,'  Richie  whispered,  and  pointed.  He  was  careful  to  keep  the  
tip  of  his  finger  well
away from the picture. An arc showed just over the low concrete wall at the 
edge of the Canal

— the top of something round.

Something like a balloon.

5

They  got  out  of  George's  room  just  in  time.  Bill's  mother  was  a  
voice  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs
and a shadow on the wall. 'Have you boys been wrestling?' she asked sharply. 'I 
heard a thud.'

'Just a lih-lih-little, M-Mom.' Bill threw a sharp gla nce at Richie. Be quiet, 
it said.

'Well,  I  want  you  to  stop  it.  I  thought  the  ceiling  was  going  to  
come  right  down  on  my
head.'

'W-W-We will.'

They  heard  her  go  back  toward  the  front  of  the  house.  Bill  had  
wrapped  his  handkerchief
around  his  bleeding  hand;  it  was  turning  red  and  in  a  moment  would  
start  to  drip.  The  boys
went  down  to  the  bathroom,  where  Bill  held  his  hand  under  the  
faucet  until  the  bleeding

stopped.  Cleaned,  the  cuts  looked  thin  but  cruelly  deep.  Looking  at  
their  white  lips  and  ht e

red  meat  just  inside  them  made  Richie  feel  sick  to  his  stomach.  He  
wrapped  them  with  Band-
Aids as fast as he could.

'H-H-Hurts like hell,' Bill said.

'Well, why'd you want to go and put your hand in there, you wet end?'

Bill looked solemnly  at  the  rings  of  Band -Aids  on  his  fingers,  then  
up  at  Richie.  'I-I-It was
the cluh-hown,' he said. 'It w-w-was the c-clown pretending to be 
Juh-Juh-George.'

'That's  right,'  Richie  said.  'Like  it  was  the  clown  pretending  to  be 
 the  mummy  when  Ben
saw it. Like it was the clown pretending to be that sick bum Eddie saw.'

'The luh-luh-leper.'
'Right.'

'But ih-is it r-r-really a cluh-cluh-clown?'

'It's  a  monster,'  Richie  said  flatly.  'Some  kind  of  monster.  Some  
kind  of  monster  right  here
in Derry. And it's killing kids.'

6

On  a  Saturday,  not  long  after  the  incident  of  the  dam  in  the  
Barrens,  Mr  Nell,  and  the  picture
that  moved,  Richie,  Ben,  and  Beverly  Marsh  came  face  to  face  with  
not  one  monster  but  two

—  and  they  paid  to  do  it.  Richie  did,  anyway.  These  monsters  were  
scary  but  not  really

dangerous;  they  stalked  their  victims  on  the  screen  of  the  Aladdin  
Theater  while  Richie,  Ben,
and Bev watched from the balcony.

One  of  the  monsters  was  a  werewolf,  played  by  Michael  Landon,  and  
he  was  cool because

even  when  he  was  the  werewolf  he  still  had  sort  of  a  duck's  ass  
haircut.  The  other  was  this


smashed-up hotrodder, played by Gary Conway. He was brought back to life by a 
descendant
of  Victor  Frankenstein,  who  fed  all  parts  he  didn't  need  to  a  bunch 
of alligators he kept in the
basement.  Also  on  the  program:  a  MovieTone  Newsreel  that  showed  the  
latest  Paris  fashions
and  the  latest  Vanguard  rocket  explosions  at  Cape  Canaveral,  two  
Warner  Brothers  cartoons,
one  Popeye  cartoon,  and  a  Chilly  Willy  cartoon  (for  some  reason  the  
hat  Chilly  Willy  wore
always  cracked  Richie  up),  and  PREVUES  OF  COMING  ATTRACTIONS.  The  
coming  attractions
included  two  pictures  Richie  immediately  put  on  his  gotta-see list:  I  
Married  a  Monster  from
Outer Space and The Blob.

Ben  was  very  quiet  during  the  show.  Ole  Haystack  had  nearly  been  
spotted  by  Henry,
Belch,  and  Victor  earlier,  and  Richie  assumed  that  was  all  that  was  
troubling  him.  Ben,
however, had forgotten all about the creeps (they were sitting close to the 
screen down below,
chucking  popcorn  boxes  at  each  other  and  hooting).  Beverly  was  the  
reason  for  his  silence.
Her  nearness  was  so  overwhelming  that  he  was  almost  ill  with  it.  
His  body  would  break  out
in  goosebumps  and  then,  if  she  should  so  much  as  shift  in  her  
seat, his skin would flash hot,
as  if  with  a  tropical  fever.  When  her  hand  brushed  his  reaching  for 
 the  popcorn,  he  trembled
with  exaltation.  He  thought  later  that  those  three  hours  in  the  dark 
 next  to  Beverly  had  been
both the longest and shortest hours of his life.

Richie,  unaware  that  Ben  was  in  deep  throes  of  calf-love,  was  
feeling  just  as  fine  as  paint.
In his book the only thing any better than a couple of Francis the Talking Mule 
pictures was a
couple  of  horror  pictures  in  a  theater  filled  with  kids, all of them 
yelling and screaming at the
gory   parts.   He   certainly   did   not   connect   any   of   the   
goings-ons   in   the   two   low-budget
American-International  pictures  they  were  watching  with  what  was  going  
on  in  town  .  .  .  not
then,                          at least.

He  had  seen  the  Twin  Shock  Show  Saturday  Matinee  ad  in  the  News  on 
Friday morning
and  had  almost  immediately  forgotten  how  badly  he  had  slept  the  
night  before  — and how he
had  finally  gotten  up  and  turned  on  the  light  in  his  closet,  a  
real  baby  trick  for  sure,  but  he
hadn't  been  able  to  get  a  wink  of  sleep  until  he'd  done  it.  But  
by  the  following  morning  things
had  seemed  normal  again  .  .  .  well,  almost.  He  began  to  think  that 
 maybe  he  and  Bill  had  just
shared  a  hallucination.  Of  course  the  cuts  on  Bill's  fingers  weren't  
a  hallucination, but maybe
they'd  just  been  paper-cuts  from  some  of  the  sheets  in  Georgie's  
album.  Pretty  thick  paper.
Could  of  been.  Maybe.  Besides,  there  was  no  law  saying  he  had  to  
spend  the  next  ten  years
thinking about it, was there? Nope.

And  so,  following  an  experience  that  might  well  have  sent  an  adult  
running  for  the  nearest
headshrinker,  Richie  Tozier  got  up,  ate  a  giant  pancake  breakfast,  
saw  the  ad  for  the  two
horror  movies  on  the  Amusements  page  of  the  paper,  checked  his  
funds,  found  them  a  ilttle
low  (well  .  .  .  'nonexistent'  might  actually  have  been  a  better  
word),  and  began  to  pester  his
father for chores.

His  dad,  who  had  come  to  the  table  already  wearing  his  white  
dentist's  tunic,  put  down  the
Sports  pages  and  poured  himself  a  second  cup of coffee. He was a 
pleasant-looking man with
a  rather  thin  face.  He  wore  steel-rimmed  spectacles, was developing a 
bald spot at the back of
his head, and would die of cancer of the larynx in 1973. He looked at the ad to 
which Richie
was pointing.

'Horror movies,' Wentworth Tozier said.
'Yeah,' Richie said, grinning.

'Feel like you have to go,' Wentworth Tozier said.
'Yeah!'

'Feel  like  you'll  probably  die  in  convulsions  of  disappointment  if  
you  don't  get  to  see  those
two trashy movies.'


'Yeah,  yeah,  I  would!  I  know  I  would!  Graaaag!'  Richie fell out of his 
chair onto the floor,
clutching  his  throat,  his  tongue  sticking  out.  This  was  Richie's  
admittedly  peculiar  way  of
turning on the charm.

'Oh  God,  Richie,  will  you  please  stop  it?'  his  mother  asked  him  
from  the  stove,  where  she
was frying him a couple of eggs to top off the pancakes.

'Gee,  Rich,'  his  father  said  as  Richie  got  back  into  his  chair.  'I  
guess  I  must  have  forgotten

to  pay  you  your  allowance  on  Monday.  That's  the  only  reason  I  can  
think  of  for  you  needing
more money on Friday.'

'Well . . . '

'Gone?'
'Well . . . '

'That's  an  extremely  deep  subject  for  a  boy  with  such  a  shallow  
mind,'  Wentworth  Tozier
said.  He  put  his  elbow  on  the  table  and  then  cupped  his  chin  on  
the  palm  of  his  hand,
regarding his only son with what appeared to be deep fascination. 'Where'd it 
go?'

Richie  immediately  fell  into  the  Voice  of  Toodles  the  English  Butler. 
 'Why,  I  spent  it,
didn't  I,  guv'nor?  Pip-pip, cheerio, and all that rot! My part of the war 
effort. All got to do our
bit  to  beat  back  the  bloody  Hun,  don't  we?  Bit  of  a  sticky  wicket, 
 ay-wot?  Bit  of  a  wet
hedgehog, wot-wot? Bit of a — '

'Bit of a pile of bullshit,' Went said amiably, and reached for the strawberry 
preserves.

'Spare  me  the  vulgarity  at  the  breakfast  table,  if  you  please,'  
Maggie  Tozier  said  to  her
husband  as  she  brought  Richie's  eggs  over  to  the  table.  And  to  
Richie:  'I  don't  know  why  you
want to fill your head up with such awful junk anyway.'

'Aw,  Mom,'  Richie  said.  He  was  outwardly  crushed,  inwardly  jubilant.  
He  could  read  both
of  his  parents  like  books   —  well-worn  and  well-loved books  —  and  he 
 was  pretty  sure  he
was   going   to   get   what   he   wanted:   chores   and   permission   to   
go   to   the   show   Saturday
afternoon.

Went  leaned  forward  toward  Richie  and  smiled  widely.  'I  think  I  have 
 you  right  where  I
want you,' he said.

'Is that right, Dad?' Richie said, and smiled back . . . a trifle uneasily.

'Oh yes. You know our lawn, Richie? You are familiar with our lawn?'

'Indeed  I  am,  guv'nor,'  Richie  said,  becoming  Toodles  again  —  or  
trying  to.  'Bit  shaggy,
ay-wot?'

'Wot-wot,' Went agreed. 'And you, Richie, will remedy that condition.'
'I will?'

'You will. Mow it, Richie.'

'Okay,  Dad,  sure,'  Richie  said,  but  a  terrible  suspicion  had  suddenly 
 blossomed  in  his  mind.

Maybe his dad didn't mean just the front lawn.

Wentworth  Tozier's  smile  widened  to  a  predatory  shark's  grin.  'All  of 
it, O idiot child of my
loins.  Front.  Back.  Sides.  And  when  you  finish,  I  will  cross  your  
palm  with  two  green  pieces
of  paper  with  the  likeness  of  George  Washington  on  one  side  and  a  
picture  of  a  pyramid
o'ertopped with the Ever-Watching Oculary on the other.'

'I don't get you, Dad,' Richie said, but he was afraid he did.

'Two bucks.'

'Two bucks for the  whole  lawn?'  Richie  cried,  genuinely  wounded.  'It's  
the  biggest  lawn  on
the block! Jeez, Dad!'

Went  sighed  and  picked  the  paper  up  again.  Richie  could  read  the  
front  page  headline:

MISSING   BOY   PROMPTS   NEW   FEARS.   He   thought   briefly   of   George   
Denbrough's   strange
scrapbook  —  but that had surely been a hallucination . . . and even if it 
hadn't been, that was
yesterday and this was today.


'Guess  you  didn't  want  to  see  those  movies  as  bad   as you thought,' 
Went said from behind
the  paper.  A  moment  later  his  eyes  appeared  over  the  top,  studying  
Richie.  Studying  him  a
trifle  smugly,  in  truth.  Studying  him  the  way  a  man  with  four  of  a 
 kind  studies  his  poker
opponent over the fan of his cards.

'When the Clark twins do it all, you give them two dollars each!'

'That's  true,'  Went  admitted.  'But  as  far  as  I  know,   they  don't  
want  to  go  to  the  movies
tomorrow.  Or  if  they  do,  they  must  have  funds  sufficient  to  the  
occasion,  because  they  haven't
popped  by  to  check  the  state  of  the  herbiage  surrounding  our  
domicile  lately.  You,  on  the
other hand,  do  want to go and find yourself lacking the funds to do so. That 
pressure you feel
in  your  midsection  may  be  the  five  pancakes  and  two  eggs  you  ate  
for  breakfast, Richie, or it
may  just  be  the  barrel  I  have  you  over.  Wot-wot?'  Went's  eyes  
submerged  behind  the  paper
again.

'He's  blackmailing  me,'  Richie  said  to  his  mother,  who  was  eating  
dry  toast.  She  was  trying
to lose weight again. This is blackmail, I just hope you know that.'

'Yes, dear, I know that,' his mother said. 'There's egg on your chin.'

Richie  wiped  the  egg  off  his  chin.  'Three  bucks  if  I  have  it  all  
done  when  you  get  home
tonight?' he asked the newspaper.

His father's eyes appeared again briefly.'Two-fifty.'
'Oh, man,' Richie said. 'You and Jack Benny.'

'My  idol,'  Went  said  from  behind  the  paper.  'Make  up  your  mind,  
Richie.  I  want  to  read
these box scores.'

'Deal,'  Richie  said,  and  sighed.  When  your  folks  had  you  by  the  
balls,  they really  knew

how  to  squeeze.  It  was  pretty  chuckalicious,  when  you  thought  it  
over.  As  he  mowed,  he
practiced his Voices.

7

He   finished   —   front,  back,  and  sides   —  by  three  o'clock  Friday  
afternoon,  and  began
Saturday  with  two  dollars  and  fifty  cents  in  his  jeans.  Pretty  damn  
near  a  fortune.  He  called
Bill  up,  but  Bill  told  him  glumly  that  he  had  to  go  up  to  Bangor  
and  take  some  kind  of
speech-therapy test.

Richie  sympathized  and  then  added  in  his  best  Stuttering  Bill  Voice:  
'G-G-Give  em  h-h-
hell, Buh-Buh-Big Bih-Bill.'

'Your f-f-face and my buh-buh-butt, T-T-Tozier,' Bill said, and hung up.

He  called  Eddie  Kaspbrak  next,  but  Eddie  sounded  even  more  depressed  
than  Bill   — his
mother  had  gotten  them  each  a  full-day bus -pass,  he  said, and they 
were going to visit Eddie's
aunts in Haven and Bangor and Hampden. All three of them were fat, like Mrs 
Kaspbrak, and
all three of them were single.

'They'll all pinch my cheek and tell me how much I've grown,' Eddie said.

'That's cause they know how cute you are, Eds  — just like me. I saw what a 
cutie you were
the first time I met you.'

'Sometimes you're really a turd, Richie.'

'It  takes  one  to  know  one,  Eds,  and  you  know  em  all.  You  gonna  be 
 down  in  the  Barrens
next week?'

'I guess so, if you guys are. Want to play guns?'

'Maybe. But . . . I think me and Big Bill have got something to tell you.'
'What?'

'It's really Bill's story, I guess. I'll see you. Enjoy your aunts.'
'Very funny.'


His  third  call  was  to  Stan  the  Man,  but  Stan  was  in  dutch  with  
his  folks  for  breaking  their
picture  window.  He  had  been  playing  flying-saucer  with  a  pie -plate  
and  it  took  a  bad  bank.
Kee-rash.   He   had   to   do   chores   all   weekend,   and   probably   
next   weekend,   too.   Richie
commiserated  and  then  asked  Stan  if  he  would  be  coming  down  to  the  
Barrens  next  week.
Stan         said he guessed so, if his father didn't decide to ground him, or 
something.

'Jeez, Stan, it was just a window,' Richie said.
'Yeah, but a big one,' Stan said, and hung up.

Richie  started  to  leave  the  living  room,  then  thought  of  Ben  
Hanscom.  He  thumbed  through
the  telephone  book  and  found  a  listing  for  an  Arlene  Hanscom.  Since  
she  was  the  only  lady
Hanscom among the four listed, Richie figured it had to be Ben's number and 
called.

'I'd  like  to  go,  but  I  already  spent  my  allowance,'  Ben  said.  He  
sounded  depressed  and
ashamed by the admission  — he had, in fact, spent it all on candy, soda, 
chips, and beef-jerky
strips.

Richie,  who  was  rolling  in  dough  (and  who  didn't  like  to  go  to  the 
 movies  alone),  said:  'I
got plenty of money. You can gimme owesies.' wooi:'

'Yeah? Really? You'd do that?'

'Sure,' Richie said, puzzled. 'Why not?'

'Okay!'  Ben  said  happily.  'Okay,  that'd  be  great!  Two  horror  movies!  
Did you say one was
a werewolf picture?'

'Yeah.'

'Man, I love werewolf pictures!'

'Jeez, Haystack, don't wet your pants.'

Ben laughed. 'I'll see you out in front of the Aladdin, okay?'
'Yeah, great.'

Richie  hung  up  and  looked  at  the  phone  thoughtfully.  It  suddenly  
occurred  to  him  that  Ben
Hanscom  was  lonely.  And  that  in  turn  made  him  feel  rather  heroic.  
He  was  whistling  as  he
ran upstairs to get some comics to read before the show.

8

The  day  was  sunny,  breezy,  and  cool.  Richie  jived along  Center  Street 
 toward  the  Aladdin,
popping  his  fingers  and  singing  'Rockin'  Robin'  under  his  breath.  He  
was  feeling  good.  Going
to   the movies always made him feel good  —  he  loved  that  magic  world,  
those  magic  dreams.
He  felt  sorry  for  anyone  who  had  dull  duties  to  discharge  on  such  
a  day  —  Bill  with  his
speech  therapy,  Eddie  with  his  aunts,  poor  old  Stan  the  Man  who  
would  be  spending  the
afternoon  scraping  down  the  front-porch  steps  or  sweeping  the  garage  
because  the  pie -plate
he'd been throwing around swept right when it was supposed to sweep left.

Richie  had  his  yo-yo  tucked  in  his  back  pocket  and  now  he  took  it  
out  and  tried  again  to
get  it  to  sleep.  This  was  an  ability  Richie  lusted  to  acquire,  but  
so  far,  no  soap.  The  crazy  l'il
fucker  just  wouldn't do it. Either it went down and popped right back up or 
it went down and
dropped dead at the end of its string.

Halfway  up  Center  Street  Hill  he  saw  a  girl  in  a  beige  pleated  
skirt  and  a  white  sleeveless
blouse  sitting  on  a  bench  outside  Shock's  Drug  Store.  She  was  eating 
 what  looked  like  a
pistachio    ice-cream    cone.    Bright    red-auburn    hair,    its    
highlights    seeming    coppery    or
sometimes  almost  blonde,  hung  down  to  her  shoulderblades.  Richie  knew  
only  one  girl  with
hair       of that particular shade. It was Beverly Marsh.

Richie  liked  Bev  a  lot.  Well,  he  liked  her,  but  not  that  way.  He  
admired  her  looks  (and
knew he wasn't alone  —  girls  like  Sally  Mueller  and  Greta  Bowie  hated  
Beverly  like  fire,  still
too  young  to  understand  how  they  could  have  everything  else  so  
easily  .  .  .  and  still  have  to


compete  in  the  matter  of  looks  with  a  girl  who  lived  in  one  of  
those  shimmy  apartments  on
Lower  Main  Street),  but  mostly  he  liked  her  because  she  was  tough  
and  had  a  really  good
sense  of  humor.  Also,  she  usually  had cigarettes.  He  liked  her,  in  
short,  because  she  was  a
good  guy.  Still,  he  had  once  or  twice  caught  himself  wondering  what  
color  underwear  she
was  wearing  under  her  small  selection  of  rather  faded  skirts,  and  
that  was  not  the  sort  of  thing
you wondered about the other guys, was it?

And, Richie had to admit, she was one hell of a pretty guy.

Approaching   the   bench   where   she   sat   eating   her   ice   cream,   
Richie   belted   an   invisible
topcoat   around   his   middle,   pulled   down   an   invisible   slouch   
hat,   and   pretended   to   be
Humphrey  Bogart.  Adding  the  correct  Voice,  he  became  Humphrey  Bogart  
—  at  least  to
himself. To others he would have sounded like Richie Tozier with a mild 
headcold.

'Hello,  shweetheart,'  he  said,  gliding  up  to  the  bench  where  she  was 
 sitting  and looking out
at  the  traffic.  'No  sensh  waitin  for  a  bus  here.  The  Nazish  have  
cut  off  our  retreat.  The  last
plane  leavesh  at  midnight.  You  be  on  it.  He  needsh  you, shweetheart. 
So do I . . . but I'll get
along shomehow.'

'Hi,  Richie,'  Bev  said,  and  when  she  turned  toward  him  he  saw  a  
purple-blackish bruise on
her right cheek, like the shadow of a crow's wing. He was again struck by her 
good looks . . .
only  it  occurred  to  him  now  that  she  might  actually  be  beautiful.  
It  had  never  really  occurred
to  him until  that  moment  that  there  might  be  beautiful  girls  outside  
of  the  movies,  or  that  he
himself  might  know  one.  Perhaps  it  was  the  bruise  that  allowed  him  
to  see  the  possibility  of
her  beauty  —  an  essential  contrast,  a  particular  flaw  which  first  
drew  attention  to  itself  and
then   somehow   denned   the   rest:   the   gray-blue   eyes,   the   
naturally   red   lips,   the   creamy
unblemished child's skin. There was a tiny spray of freckles across her nose.

'See anything green?' she asked, tossing her head pertly.

'You,  shweetheart,'  Richie  said.  'You've  turned  green  ash  limberger  
cheese.  But  when  we
get  you  out  of  Cashablanca,  you're  going  into  the  finesht  hoshpital  
money  can  buy.  We'll  turn
you white again. I shwear it on my mother'sh name.'

'You're  an  asshole,  Richie.  That  doesn't  sound  like  Humphrey  Bogart  
at  all.'  But  she  smiled
a little as she said it.

Richie sat down next to her. 'You going to the movies?'

'I don't have any money,' she said. 'Can I see your yo-yo?'

He handed it over, 'I oughtta take  it back,' he told her. 'It's supposed to 
sleep but it doesn't. I
got japped.'

She  poked  her  finger  through  the  loop  of  string  and  Richie  pushed  
his  glasses  up  on  the

bridge  of  his  nose  so  he  could  watch  what  she  was  doing  better.  
She  turned  her  hand  over,
palm  toward  the  sky,  the  Duncan  yo-yo  tucked  neatly  into  the  valley  
of  flesh  formed  by  her
cupped  hand.  She  rolled  the  yo-yo  off  her  index  finger.  It  went  
down  to  the  end  of  its  string
and  fell  asleep.  When  she  twitched  her  fingers  in  a  come-on  gesture  
it  promptly  woke  up  and
climbed its string to her palm again.

'Oh bug-dung, look at that,' Richie said.

'That's  kid  stuff,'  Bev  said.  'Watch  this.'  She  snapped  the  yo-yo 
down again. She let it sleep
for  a  moment  and  then  walked  the  dog  with  it  in a smart series of 
snap jerks up the string to
her hand again.

'Oh, stop it,' Richie said. 'I hate show-offs.'

'Or  how  about  this?'  Bev  asked,  smiling  sweetly.  She  got  the  yo-yo  
going  back  and  front,
making  the  red  wooden  Duncan  look  like  a  Bo-Lo Bo uncer Richie had had 
once. She finished
with  two  Around  the  Worlds  (almost  hitting  a  shuffling  old  lady,  who 
 glared  at  them).  The
yo-yo  ended  up  in  her  cupped  palm,  its  string  neatly  rolled  around  
its  spindle.  Bev  handed  it

back  to  Richie  and  sat  down  on  ht e bench again. Richie sat down next to 
her, his jaw hanging

agape in perfectly unaffected admiration. Bev looked at him and giggled.


'Shut your mouth, you're drawing flies.'
Richie shut his mouth with a snap.

'Besides,  that  last  part  was  just  luck. First time in my life I did two 
Around the Worlds in a
row without fizzing out.'

Kids were walking past them now, on their way to the show. Peter Gordon walked 
by with
Marcia  Fadden.  They  were  supposed  to  be  going  together,  but  Richie  
figured  it  was just that
they lived nest door to each other on West Broadway and were such a couple of 
assholes that
they  needed  each  other's  support  and  attention.  Peter  Gordon  was  
already  getting  a  pretty
good  crop  of  acne,  although  he  was  only  twelve.  He  sometimes hung  
around  with  Bowers,
Criss, and Huggins, but he wasn't quite brave enough to try anything on his 
own.

He  glanced  over  at  Richie  and  Bev  sitting  together  on  the  bench  and 
 chanted,  'Richie  and
Beverly  up  in  a  tree!  Kay-Eye-Ess-Ess-Eye-En-Gee!  First  comes  love,  
then  comes  marriage

— '

' — and here comes Richie with a baby carriage!' Marcia finished, cawing 
laughter.

'Sit  on  this,  dear  heart,'  Bev  said,  and  whipped  the  finger  on  
them.  Marcia  looked  away,
disgusted,  as  if  she  could  not  believe  anyone  could  be  so  uncouth.  
Gordon  slipped  an  arm
around her and called back over his shoulder to Richie, 'Maybe I'll see you 
later, four -eyes.'

'Maybe  you'll  see  your  mother's  girdle,'  Richie  responded  smartly  (if  
a  little  senselessly).
Beverly   collapsed   with   laughter.   She   leaned   against   Richie's   
shoulder   for   a   moment   and
Richie  had  just  time  to  reflect  that  her  touch,  and  the  sensation  
of  her  lightly  carried  weight,
was not exactly unpleasant. Then she sat up again.

'What a pair of jerks,' she said.

'Yeah,  I  think  Marcia  Fadden  pees  rosewater,'  Richie  said,  and  
Beverly  got  the  giggles
again.

'Chanel Number Five,' she said, her voice muffled because her hands were over 
her mouth.

'You  bet,'  said  Richie,  although  he  hadn't  the  slightest  idea  what  
Chanel  Number  Five  was.
'Bev?'

'What?'

'Can you show me how to make it sleep?'
'I guess so. I never tried to show anyone.'
'How did you learn? Who showed you?'

She  gave  him  a  disgusted  look.  'No  one  showed  me.  I  just  figured  
it  out. Like twirling a
baton. I'm great at that — '

'No conceit in your family,' Richie said, rolling his eyes.

'Well, I am,' she said. 'But I didn't take classes, or anything.'
'You really can twirl?'

'Sure.'

'Probably be a cheerleader in junior high, huh?'

She  smiled.  It  was  a  kind  of  smile  Richie  had  never  seen  before.  
It  was  wise,  cynical,  and
sad  all  at  the  same  time.  He  recoiled  a  little  from  its  unknowing  
power,  as  he  had  recoiled
from the picture of downtown in Georgie's album when it had begun to move.

'That's  for  girls  like  Marcia  Fadden,'  she  said.  'Her  and  Sally  
Mueiler  and  Greta  Bowie.

Girls  who  pee  rosewater.  Their  fathers  help  to  buy  the  sports  
equipment  and  the  uniforms.
They got an in. I'll never be a cheerleader.' ,«

'Jeez, Bev, that's no attitude to take — '

'Sure  it  is,  if  it's  the  truth.'  She  shrugged.  'I  don't  care.  Who  
wants  to  do  somersaults  and
show your underwear to a million people, anyway? Look, Richie. Watch this.'

For  the  next  ten  minutes  she worked on showing Richie how to make his 
yo-yo sleep. Near
the  end,  Richie  actually  began  to  get  the  hang  of  it,  although  he  
could  usually  only  get  it  to
come halfway up the string after waking it up.


'You're not jerking your fingers hard enough, that's all,' she said.

Richie looked at the clock on the Merrill Trust across the street and jumped 
up, stuffing his
yo-yo into his back pocket. 'Jeepers, I gotta get goin, Bev. I'm supposed to 
meet ole Haystack.
He'll think I changed my mind or some-thin.'

'Who's Haystack?'

'Oh.  Ben  Hanscom.  I  call  him  Haystack,  though.  You  know,  like  
Haystack  Calhoun,  the
wrestler.'

Bev frowned at him. 'That's not very nice. I like Ben.'

'Doan  whup  me,  massa!'  Richie  screeched  in  his  Pickaninny  Voice,  
rolling  his  eyes  and
flapping his hands. 'Doan whup me, I'se gwineter be a good dahkie, ma'am, I'se 
— '

'Richie,' Bev said thinly.

Richie quit it. 'I like him, too,' he said. 'We all built a dam down in the 
Barrens a couple of
days ago and — '

'You go down there? You and Ben play down there?'

'Sure. A bunch of us guys do. It's sorta cool down there.' Richie glanced at 
the clock again.
'I really gotta split for the scene. Ben'll be waiting.'

'Okay.'

He paused, thought, and said, 'If you're not doing anything, come on with me.'
'I told you. I don't have any money.'

'I'll pay your way. I got a couple of bucks.'

She  tossed  the  remains  of  her  ice-cream  cone  in  a  nearby  litter  
barrel.  Her  eyes,  that  fine
clear  shade  of  blue-gray,  turned  up  to  his.  They  were  coolly  amused. 
 She  pretended  to  primp
her hair and asked him, 'Oh dear, am I being asked out on a date?'

For  a  moment  Richie  was  uncharacteristically  flustered.  He  actually  
felt  a  blush  rising  in
his cheeks. He had made the offer in a perfectly natural way, just as he had 
made it to Ben . . .
except  hadn't  he  said  something  to  Ben  about  owesies?  Yes.  But  he  
hadn't  said  anything
about owesies to Beverly.

Richie  suddenly  felt  a  bit  weird.  He  had  dropped  his  eyes,  
retreating  from  her  amused
glance,  and  realized  now  that  her  skirt  had  ridden  up  a  bit  when  
she  shifted  forward  to  drop
the  ice-cream cone in the litter barrel, and he could see her knees. He raised 
his eyes but that
was no help; now he was looking at the beginning swells of her bosoms.

Richie, as he usually did in such moments of confusion, took refuge in 
absurdity.

'Yes!  A  date!'  he  screamed,  throwing  himself  on  his  knees  before  her 
 and  holding  his
clasped  hands  up.  'Please  come!  Please  come!  I  shall  ruddy  kill 
meself if you say no, ay-wot?
Wot-wot?'

'Oh,  Richie,  you're  such  a  fuzzbrain,'  she  said,  giggling  again  .  .  
.  but  weren't  her  cheeks
also a trifle flushed? If so, it made her look prettier than ever. 'Get up 
before you get arrested.'

He  got  up  and plopped down beside her again. He felt as if his equilibrium 
had returned. A
little foolishness always helped when you had a dizzy spell, he believed. 'You 
wanna go?'

'Sure,'  she  said.  Thank  you  very  much.  Think  of  it!  My  first  date.  
Just  wait  until  I write it in
my  diary  tonight.'  She  clasped  her  hands  together  between  her  budding 
 breasts,  fluttered  her
eyelashes rapidly, and then laughed.

'I wish you'd stop calling it that,' Richie said.

She sighed. 'You don't have much romance in your soul.'
'Damn right I don't.'

But  he  felt  somehow  delighted  with  himself.  The  world  seemed  suddenly 
 very  clear  to  him,

and  very  friendly.  He  found  himself  glancing  sideways  at  her  from  
time  to  time.  She  was
looking  in  the  shop  windows  —  at  the  dresses  and  nightgowns  in  
Cornell-Hopley's,  at  the
towels and pots in the window of the Discount Barn, and he stole glances at her 
hair, the line
of her jaw. He observed the way her bare arms came out of the round holes of 
her blouse. He


saw  the  edge  of  her  slip  strap. All of these things delighted him. He 
could not have said why,
but  what  had  happened  in  George  Denbrough's  bedroom  had  never  seemed  
more  distant  to
him  than  it  did  right  then.  It  was  time  to  go,  time  to  meet  Ben,  
but  he  would  sit  here  just  a
moment  longer  while  her  eyes  window-shopped,  because  it  was  good  to  
look  at  her,  and  be
with her.

9

Kids  were  ponying  up  their  quarter  admissions  at  the  Aladdin's  
box-office  window  and  going
into  the  lobby.  Looking  through  the  bank  of  glass  doors,  Richie  
could  see a crowd around the
candy  counter.  The  popcorn  machine  was  in  overdrive,  spilling  out  
drifts  of  the  stuff,  its
greasy  hinged  lid  jittering  up  and  down.  He  didn't  see  Ben  anywhere. 
 He  asked  Beverly  if  she
had spotted him. She shook her head.

'Maybe he already went in.'

'He said he didn't have any money. And the Daughter of Frankenstein there would 
never let
him in without a ticket.' Richie cocked a thumb at Mrs Cole, who had been the 
ticket-taker at
the  Aladdin  since  a  time  well  before  the  pictures  had  begun  to  
talk.  Her  hair,  dyed  a  bright
red,  was  so  thin  you  could  see  her  scalp  beneath.  She  had  enormous  
hanging  lips  which  she
painted  with  plum-colored  lipstick.  Wild  blotches  of  rouge  covered  her 
 cheeks.  Her  eyebrows
were drawn on in black pencil. Mrs Cole was a perfect democrat. She hated all 
kids equally.

'Boy,  I  don't  wanna  go  in  without  him  but  the  show's  gonna  start,'  
Richie  said.  'Where  in
heck is he?'

'You  can  buy  him  a  ticket  and  leave  it  at  the  box-office,'  Bev  
said,  reasonably  enough.

'Then when he comes — '

But  just  then  Ben  came  around  the  corner  of  Center  and  Macklin  
Streets.  He  was  puffing,
and  his  belly  joggled  beneath  his  sweatshirt.  He  saw  Richie  and  
raised  one  hand  to  wave.
Then  he  saw  Bev  and  his  hand  stopped  in  mid-flap.  His  eyes  widened  
momentarily.  He
finished his wave and then walked slowly to where they stood under the 
Aladdin's marquee.

'Hi,  Richie,'  he  said,  and  then  looked  at  Bev  briefly.  It  was  as  
if  he  was  afraid  that  an
overlong look might result in a flash burn. 'Hi, Bev.'

'Hello,  Ben,'  she  said,  and  a  strange  silence  fell  between  the  two  
of  them  —  it  was  not
precisely  awkward;  it  was,  Richie  thought,  almost  powerful.  And  he  
felt  a  vague  twinge  of
jealousy,  because  something  had  passed  between  them  and whatever it had 
been, he had been
excluded from it.

'Howdy,  Haystack!'  he  said.  Thought  you  went  chicken  on  me.  These  
movies  goan  scare
ten  pounds  off  your  pudgy  body.  Ah  say,  Ah  say,  they  goan  turn  
your  hair  white,  boy.  When
you  come  out  of  this  theater,  you  goan  need  an  usher  to  help  you  
up  the  aisle,  you  goan  be
shakin so bad.'

Richie  started  for  the  box-office  and  Ben  touched  his  arm.  Ben  
started  to  speak,  glanced  at
Bev,  who  was  smiling  at  him,  and  had  to  start  over  again.  'I  was  
here,'  he  said, 'but I went up
the street and around the corner when those guys came along.'

'What guys?' Richie asked, but he thought he already knew.

'Henry Bowers. Victor Criss. Belch Huggins. Some other guys, too.'

Richie  whistled.  'They  must  have  already  gone  inside  the  theater.  I  
don't  see  em  buying
candy.'

'Yeah. I guess so.'

'If  I  was  them,  I  wouldn't  bother  paying  to  see  a  couple  of  horror 
 movies,'  Richie  said.  'I'd
just stay home and look in a mirror. Save some bread.'


Bev  laughed  merrily  at  that,  but  Ben  only  smiled  a  little.  Henry  
Bowers  had  maybe  only
started  out  to  hurt  him  that  day  last  week,  but  he  had  ended  up  
meaning  to  kill  him.  Ben  was
quite sure of that.

'Tell  you  what,'  Richie  said.  'We'll  go  up  in  the  balcony.  They'll  
all  be  sittin  down  in  the
second or third row with their feet up.'

'You  positive?'  Ben  asked.  He  was  not  at  all  sure  Richie  understood  
what  bad  news  those

kids were . . . Henry, of course, being the worst news of all.

Richie, who had barely escaped  what  might  have  been  a  really  bad  
beating  at  the  hands  of
Henry  and  his  spasmoid  friends  three  months  ago  (he  had  managed  to  
elude  them  in  the  toy
department of Freese's Department Store, of all places), understood more about 
Henry and his
merry crew than Ben thought he did.

'If  I  wasn't  fairly  positive,  I  wouldn't  go  in,'  he  said.  'I  want  
to  see  those  movies,  Haystack,
but I don't want to, like, die for em.'

'Besides,  if  they  give  us  any  trouble,  we'll  just  tell  Foxy  to  kick 
 them  out,'  Bev  said.  Foxy

was  Mr  Foxworth,  the  thin,  sallow,  glum-looking  man  who  managed  the  
Aladdin.  He  was
now  selling  candy  and  popcorn,  chanting  his  litany  of  'Wait  your  
turn,  wait  your  turn,  wait
your  turn.'  In  his  threadbare  tux  and  yellowing  boiled  shirt  he  
looked  like  an undertaker who
had fallen on hard times. : Ben looked doubtfully from Bev to Foxy to Richie.

'You can't let em run your life, man,' Richie said softly. 'Don't you know 
that?'

'I  guess  so,'  Ben  said,  and  sighed.  Actually,  he  knew  no  such  thing 
 .  . . but Beverly's being
here had given the equation a crazy skew. If she hadn't come, he would have 
tried to persuade
Richie  to  go  to  the  movies  another  day.  And  if  Richie  had  
persisted,  Ben  might  have  bowed
out. But Bev  was  here.  He  didn't  want  to  look  like a chicken in front 
of her. And the thought
of  being  with  her,  in  the  balcony,  in  the  dark  (even  if  Richie  was 
 between  them,  as  he
probably would be), was a powerful attraction.

'We'll  wait  until  the  show  starts  before  we  go  in,'  Richie  said.  He 
 grinned and punched Ben
on the arm. 'Shit, Haystack, you wanna live forever?'

Ben's  brows  drew  together,  and  then  he  snorted  laughter.  Richie  also  
laughed.  Looking  at
them, Beverly laughed, too.

Richie approached the ticket booth again. Liver Lips Cole looked at him sourly.

'Good  ahfternyoon,  deah  lady,'  Richie  said  in  his  best  Baron  Butthole 
 Voice.  'I  am  in  diah
need of three tickey-tickies to youah deah old American flicktoons.'

'Cut  the  crap  and  tell  me  what  you  want,  kid!'  Liver  Lips  barked  
through the round hole cut
in  the  glass,  and  something  about  the  way  her  painted eyebrows  were  
going  up  and  down
unsettled   Richie   so   much   that   he   simply   pushed   a   rumpled   
dollar   through   the   slot   and
muttered, 'Three, please.'

Three  tickets  popped  out  of  the  slot.  Richie  took  them.  Liver  Lips  
rammed  a  quarter  back
at  him.  'Don't  be  smart,  don't  throw  popcorn  boxes,  don't  holler,  
don't  run  in  the  lobby,  don't
run in the aisles.'

'No,  ma'am,'  Richie  said,  backing  away  to  where  Ben  and  Bev  stood.  
He  said  to them, 'It
always warms my heart to see an old fart like that who really likes kids.'

They  stood  outside  awhile  longer,  waiting  for  the  show  to  start.  
Liver  Lips  glared  at  them

suspiciously  from  her  glass  cage.  Richie  regaled  Bev  with  the  story  
of  the dam in the Barrens,
trumpeting  Mr  Nell's  lines  in  his  new  Irish  Cop  Voice.  Beverly  was  
giggling  before  long,
laughing  hard  not  long  after  that.  Even  Ben  was  grinning  a  little,  
although  his  eyes  kept
shifting either toward the Aladdin's glass doors or to Beverly's face.

10


The  balcony  was  okay.  During  the  first  reel  of I  Was a Teenage 
Frankenstein  Richie spotted
Henry  Bowers  and  his  shitkicking  friends.  They  were  down  in  the  
second  row,  just  as  he  had
figured  they  would  be.  There  were  five  or  six  of  them  in  all  —  
fifth-,  sixth-,  and  seventh-
graders,  all  of  them  with  their  motorhuckle  boots  cocked  up  on  the  
seats  in  front  of  them.
Foxy  would  come  down  and  tell  them  to  put  their  feet  on  the  floor. 
 They  would.  Foxy  would
leave.  Up  went  the  motorhuckle  boots again as soon as he did. Five or ten 
minutes later Foxy
would  return  and  the  entire  charade  would  be  acted  out  again.  Foxy  
didn't  quite  have  the  guts
to kick them out and they knew it.

The   movies   were   great.   The   Teenage   Frankenstein   was   suitably   
gross.   The   Teenage
Werewolf  was  somehow  scarier,  though  .  .  .  perhaps  because  he  also  
seemed  a  little  sad.
What  had  happened  wasn't  his  own  fault.  There  was  this  hypnotist  who 
 had  fucked  him  up,
but  the  only  reason  he'd  been  able  to  was  that  the  kid  who  turned  
into the werewolf was full
of  anger  and  bad  feelings.  Richie  found  himself  wondering  if  there  
were  many  people  in  the
world  hiding  bad  feelings  like  that.  Henry  Bowers  was  just  
overflowing  with  bad  feelings,  but
he sure didn't bother hiding them.

Beverly  sat  between  the  boys,  ate  popcorn  from  their  boxes,  screamed, 
 covered  her  eyes,
sometimes  laughed.  When  the  Werewolf  was  stalking  the  girl  doing  
exercises  in  the  gym
after  school,  she  pressed  her  face  against  Ben's  arm,  and  Richie  
heard  Ben's  gasp  of  surprise
even over the screams of the two hundred kids below them.

The  Werewolf  was  finally  killed.  In  the  last  scene  one  cop  solemnly  
told  another  that  this
should teach people not to fiddle with things best left to God. The curtain 
came down and the
lights  came  up.  There  was  applause.  Richie  felt  totally  satisfied,  if 
 a  little  headachy.  He'd
probably  have  to  go  to  the  eye-doctor pretty soon and get his lenses 
changed again. He really
would  be  wearing  Coke  bottles  on  his  eyes  by  the  time  he  got  to  
high  school,  he  thought
glumly.

Ben twitched at his sleeve. 'They saw us, Richie,' he said in a dry, dismayed 
voice.
'Huh?'

'Bowers and Criss. They looked up here on their way out. They saw us!'

'Okay,  okay,'  Richie  said.  'Calm  down,  Haystack.  Just  caaalm  down. 
We'll go out the side
door. Nothing to worry about.'

They  went  down  the  stairs,  Richie  in  the  lead,  Beverly  in  the  
middle,  Ben  bringing  up  the

rear and looking back over his shoulder every two steps or so.
'Have those guys really got it in for you, Ben?' Beverly asked.

'Yeah,  I  guess  they  do,'  Ben  said.  'I  got  in  a  fight  with  Henry  
Bowers  on  the  last  day  of

school.'

'Did he beat you up?'

'Not as much as he wanted to,' Ben said. 'That's why he's still mad, I guess.'

'Ole  Hank  the  Tank  also  lost  a  fair  amount  of  skin,'  Richie  
murmured.  'Or  so  I  heard.  I
don't think he was very pleased about that, either.' He pushed open the exit 
door and the three
of  them  stepped  out  into  the  alley  that  ran  between  the  Aladdin  and 
 Nan's  Luncheonette. A
cat  which  had  been  rooting  in  a  garbage  can  hissed  and  ran  past  
them  down  the  alley,  which
was  blocked  at  the  far  end  by  a  board  fence.  The  cat  scrambled  up  
and  over.  A  trashcan  lid
clattered.  Bev  jumped,  grabbed  Richie's  arm,  and  then  laughed  
nervously.  'I  guess  I'm  still
scared from the movies,' she said.

'You won't — ' Richie began.

'Hello, fuckface,' Henry Bowers said from behind them.

Startled,  the  three  of  them  turned  around.  Henry,  Victor,  and  Belch  
were  standing  at  the
mouth of the alley. There were two other guys behind them.

'Oh shit, I knew this was going to happen,' Ben moaned.


Richie  turned  quickly  back  toward  the  Aladdin,  but  the  exit  door  had 
 closed  behind  them
and there was no way to open it from the outside.

'Say goodbye, fuckface,' Henry said, and suddenly ran at Ben.

The  things  that  happened  next  seemed  to  Richie  both  then  and  later  
like  something  out  of  a
movie  —  such  things  simply  did  not  happen  in  real  life.  In  real  
life  the  little  kids  took  their
beatings, picked up their teeth and went home.

It didn't happen that way this time.

Beverly  stepped  forward  and  to  one  side,  almost  as  if  she  intended  
to  meet  Henry,  perhaps
shake  his  hand.  Richie  could  hear  the  cleats  on  his  boots  rapping.  
Victor  and  Belch  were
coming after him; the other two boys stood at the mouth of the alley, guarding 
it.

'Leave him alone!' Beverly shouted. 'Pick on someone your own size!'


'He's  as  big  as  a  fucking  Mack  truck,  bitch,'  Henry,  no  gentleman,  
snarled. N'
my — '

ow get out of

Richie  stuck  out  his  foot.  He  didn't  think  he  meant  to.  His  foot  
went  out  the  same  way

wisecracks  dangerous  to  his  health  sometimes  emerged,  all  on  their  
own,  from  his  mouth.
Henry  ran  into  it  and  fell  forward.  The  brick  surface  of  the  alley  
was  slippery  with  spilled
garbage  from  the  overflowing  cans  on  the  luncheonette  side.  Henry  
went  skidding  like  a
shuffleboard weight.

He  started  to  get  up,  his  shirt  blotched  with  coffee  grounds,  mud,  
and  bits  of  lettuce.  'Oh
you guys are gonna DIE!' he screamed.

Until  this  moment  Ben  had  been  terrified.  Now  something  in  him  
snapped.  He  let  out  a
roar  and  grabbed  one  of  the  garbage  cans.  For  just  a  moment,  
holding  it  up,  garbage  spilling

everywhere,  he  really  did  look  like  Haystack  Calhoun.  His  face  was  
pale  and  furious.  He
threw the garbage can. It struck Henry in the small of the back and knocked him 
flat again.

'Let's get out of here!' Richie screamed.

They  ran  toward  the  mouth  of  the  alley.  Victor  Criss  jumped  in  
front  of  them. Bellowing,
Ben  lowered  his  head  and  rammed  it  into  Victor's  middle.  'Woof!'  
Victor  grunted,  and  sat
down.

Belch   grabbed   a   handful   of   Beverly's   pony-tail   and   whipped   
her   smartly   against   the

Aladdin's  brick  wall.  Beverly  bounced  off  and  ran  down  the  aley,  
rubbing  her  arm.  Richie
ran  after  her,  grabbing  a  garbage-can  lid  on  the  way.  Belch  Huggins  
swung  a  fist  almost  the
size  of  a  Daisy  ham  at  him.  Richie  pistoned  out  the  galvanized  
steel  lid.  Belch's  fist  met  it.
There  was  a  loud  bonnngg!  —  a  sound  that  was  almost  mellow.  Richie  
felt  the  shock  travel
all  the  way  up  his  arm  to  the  shoulder.  Belch  screamed  and  began  
to  hop  up  and  down,
holding his swelling hand.

'Yondah  lies  da  tent  of  my  faddah,'  Richie  said  confidentially,  doing 
 a  very  passable  Tony
Curtis Voice, and then ran after Ben and Beverly.

One  of  the  boys  at  the  mouth  of  the  alley  had  caught  Beverly.  Ben  
was  tussling  with  him.
The  other  boy  began  to  rabbit-punch  Ben  in  the  small  of  the  back.  
Richie  swung  his  foot.  It
connected   with   the   rabbit-puncher's   buttocks.   The   boy   howled   
with   pain.   Richie   grabbed
Beverly's arm in one hand, Ben's in the other.

'Run!' he shouted.

The  boy  Ben  had  been  tussling  with  let  go  of  Beverly  and  looped  a  
punch  at  Richie.  His
ear   exploded   with   momentary   pain,   then   went   numb   and   became   
very   warm.   A   high
whistling  sound  began  to  whine  in  his  head.  It  sounded  like  the  
noise  you  were  supposed  to
listen for when the school nurse put the earphones on you to test your hearing.

They  ran  down  Center  Street.  People  turned  to  look  at  them.  Ben's  
large  stomach  pogoed
up  and  down.  Beverly's  pony-tail  bounced.  Richie  let  go  of  Ben  and  
held  his  glasses  against
his  forehead  with  his  left  thumb  so  he  wouldn't  lose  them.  His  head 
 was  still  ringing  and  he


believed   his   ear  was  going  to  swell,  but  he  felt  wonderful.  He  
started  laughing.  Beverly
joined him. Soon Ben was laughing, too.

They  cut  up  Court  Street  and  collapsed  on  a  bench  in  front  of  the  
police  station:  at  that
moment  it  seemed  the  only  place  in  Derry  where  they  might  possibly 
be safe. Beverly looped
an arm around Ben's neck and Richie's. She gave them a furious hug.

'That was great!' Her eyes sparkled. 'Did you see those guys? Did you see them?'
'I saw them, all right,' Ben gasped. 'And I never want to see them again.'

This  sent  them  off  into  another  storm  of  hysterical  laughter.  Richie  
kept  expecting  Henry's
gang to come around the corner onto Court Street and take after them again, 
police station or
not. Still, he could not stop laughing. Beverly was right. It had been great.

'The   Losers'   Club   Gets   Off   A   Good   One!'   Richie   yelled   
exuberantly.   'Wacka-wacka-
wacka!'  He  cupped  his  hands  around  his  mouth  and  put  on  his  Ben  
Bernie  Voice:  'YOW-za
YOW-za YOWZA, childrens!'

A  cop  poked  his  head  out  of  an  open  second-floor window and shouted: 
'You kids get out
of here! Right now! Take a walk!'

Richie  opened  his  mouth  to  say  something  brilliant  —  quite  possibly  
in  his  brand-new  Irish
Cop  Voice  —  and  Ben  kicked  his  foot.  'Shut  up,  Richie,'  he  said,  
and promptly had trouble
believing that he had said such a thing.

'Right, Richie,' Bev said, looking at him fondly. 'Beep-beep.'

'Okay,'  Richie  said.  'What  do  you  guys  want  to  do?  Wanna  go  find  
Henry  Bowers  and  ask
him if he wants to work it out over a game of Monopoly?'

'Bite your tongue,' Bev said.

'Huh? What does that mean?'

'Never mind,' Bev said. 'Some guys are so ignorant.'

Hesitantly, blushing furiously, Ben asked: 'Did that guy hurt your hair, 
Beverly?'

She  smiled  at  him  gently,  and  in  that  moment  she  became  sure  of  
something  she  had  only
guessed  at  before  —  that  it  had  been  Ben  Hanscom  who  had  sent  her  
the  postcard  with  the
beautiful little haiku on it. 'No, it wasn't bad,' she said.

'Let's go down in the Barrens,' Richie proposed.

And  so  that  was  where  they  went  .  .  .  or  where  they  escaped.  
Richie  would  think  later  that
it  set  a  pattern  for  the  rest  of  the  summer.  The  Barrens  had  
become  their  place.  Beverly,  like
Ben  on  the  day  of  his  first  encounter  with  the  big  boys,  had  never 
 been  down  there  before.
She  walked  between  Richie  and  Ben  as  the  three  of  them  moved  
single-file  down  the  path.
Her   skirt   twitched   prettily,   and   looking   at   her,   Ben   was   
aware   of   waves   of   feeling,   as
powerful  as  stomach  cramps.  She  was  wearing  her  ankle  bracelet.  It  
flashed  in  the  afternoon
sun.

They  crossed  the  arm  of  the  Kenduskeag  the  boys  had  dammed  up  (the  
stream  divided
about  seventy  yards  farther  up  along  its  course  and  became  one  again 
 about  two  hundred
yards  farther  on  toward  town),  using  stepping-stones  downstream  of  the 
 place  where  the  dam
had  been,  found  another  path,  and  eventually  came  out  on  the  bank  
of  the  stream's  eastern
fork,  which  was  much  wider  than  the  other.  It  sparkled  in  the  
afternoon  light.  To  his  left,  Ben
could  see  two  of  those  concrete  cylinders  with  the  manhole  covers  on 
 top.  Below  them,
jutting  out  over  the  stream,  were  large  concrete  pipes.  Thin  streams  
of  muddy  water  poured
over  the  lips  of  these  outflow  pipes  and  into  the  Kenduskeag.  
Someone  takes  a  crap  upt own
and  here's  where  it  comes  out,   Ben  thought,  remembering  Mr  Nell's  
explanation  of  Derry's
drainage  system.  He  felt  a  dull  sort  of  helpless  anger.  Once  there  
had  probably  been  fish  in
this  river.  Now  your  chances  of  catching  a  trout  wouldn't  be  so  
hot.  Your chances of catching
a used wad of toilet paper would be better.

'It's so beautiful here,' Bev sighed.


'Yeah,  not  bad,'  Richie  agreed.  'The  blackflies  are  gone  and  there's  
enough  of  a  breeze  to
keep the mosquitoes away.' He looked at her hopefully. 'Got any cigarettes?'

'No,' she said. 'I had a couple but I smoked them yesterday.'
'Too bad,' Richie said.

There  was  the  blast  of  an  air-horn and they all watched as a long freight 
rumbled across the
embankment  on  the  far  side  of  the  Barrens  and  toward  the  trainyards. 
 Jeez,  if  it  was  a
passenger  train  they'd  have  a  great  view,  Richie  thought.  First  the  
poor-folks'  houses  of  the
Old  Cape,  then  the  bamboo  swamps  on  the  other  side  of  the  
Kenduskeag,  and  finally,  before
leaving the Barrens, the smoldering gravel-pit that was the town dump.

For  just  a  moment  he  found  himself  thinking  about  Eddie's  story  
again —  the  leper  under
the abandoned house on Neibolt Street. He pushed it out of his mind and turned 
to Ben.

'So what was your best part, Haystack?'

'Huh?'  Ben  turned  to  him  guiltily.  As  Bev  looked  out  across  the  
Kenduskeag,  lost  in
thoughts  of  her  own,  he  had  been  looking  at  her  profile  .  .  .  and 
 at  the  bruise  on  her
cheekbone.

'Of the movies, Dumbo. What was your best part?'

'I  liked  it  when  Dr  Frankenstein  started  tossing  the  bodies  to  the  
crocodiles  under  his
house,' Ben said. That was my best part.'

'That   was   gross,'   Beverly   said,   and   shivered.   'I   hate   things  
 like   that.   Crocodiles   and

piranhas and sharks.'

'Yeah? What's piranhas?' Richie asked, immediately interested.

'Little  tiny  fish,'  Beverly  said.  'And  they've  got  all  these  little  
tiny  teeth,  but  they're  wicked
sharp. And if you go into a river where they are, they eat you right down to 
the bone.'

'Wow!'

'I  saw  this  movie  once  and  these  natives  wanted  to  cross  a  river  
but  the  footbridge  was
down,'  she  said.  'So  they  put  a  cow  in  the  water  on  a  rope,  and  
crossed  while  the  piranhas
were  eating  the  cow.  When  they  pulled  it  out,  the  cow  was  nothing  
but  a   skeleton.  I  had
nightmares for a week.'

'Man,  I  wish  I  had  some  of  those  fish,'  Richie  said  happily.  'I'd  
put  em  in  Henry  Bowers'

bathtub.'

Ben began to giggle. 'I don't think he takes baths.'

'I  don't  know  about  that,  but  I  do  know  we  better  watch out for 
those guys,' Beverly said.
Her ringers touched the bruise on her cheek. 'My dad went up the side of my 
head day before
yesterday for breaking a pile of dishes. One a week is enough.'

There was a moment of silence that might have been awkward but was not. Richie 
broke it
by  saying  his  best  part  was  when  the  Teenage  Werewolf  got  the  evil  
hypnotist.  They  talked
about the movies  — and other horror movies they had seen, and Alfred Hitchcock 
Presents  on
TV —  for an hour or more. Bev spotted daisies growing on the riverbank and 
picked one. She
held  it  first  under  Richie's  chin  and  then  under  Ben's  chin  to  see  
if  they  liked  butter.  She  said
they  both  did.  As  she  held  the  flower  under  their  chins,  each  was  
conscious  of  her  light  touch
on  their  shoulders  and  the  clean  scent  of  her  hair.  Her  face  was  
close  to  Ben's  only  for  a
moment  or  two,  but  that  night  he  dreamed  of  how  her  eyes  had  
looked  during  that  brief
endless span of time.

Conversation   was   fading   a   little   when   they   heard   the   
crackling   sounds   of   people
approaching  along  the  path.  The  three  of  them  turned  quickly  toward  
the  sound  and  Richie
was suddenly, acutely aware that the river was at their backs. There was no 
place to run.

The  voices  drew  closer.  They  got  to  their  feet,  Richie  and  Ben  
moving  a  little  in  front  of
Beverly without even thinking about it.

The  screen  of  bushes  at  the  end  of  the  path  shook  —   and  suddenly  
Bill  Denbrough

emerged.  Another  kid  was  with  him,  a  fellow  Richie  knew  a  little  
bit.  His  name  was  Bradley


something,  and  he  had  a  terrible  lisp.  Probably  went  up  to  Bangor  
with  Bill  for  that  speech-
therapy thing, Richie thought.

'Big  Bill!'  he  said,  and  then  in  the  Voice  of  Toodles:  'We  are  
glad  to  see  you,  Mr
Denbrough, mawster.'

Bill looked at them and grinned  —  and  a  peculiar  certainty  stole  over  
Richie  as  Bill  looked
from  him  to  Ben  to  Beverly  and  then  back  to  Bradley  
Whatever-His-Name-Was. Beverly was
a  part  of  them.  Bill's  eyes  said  so.  Bradley  What's-His-Name  was  
not.  He  might  stay  for
awhile  today,  might  even  come  down  to  the  Barrens  again  —  no  one  
would  tell  him  no,  so
sorry,  the  Losers'  Club  membership  is  full,  we  already  have  our  
speech-impediment member

— but he was not part of it. He was not part of them.

This  thought  led  to  a  sudden,  irrational  fe ar.  For  a  moment  he  
felt  the  way  you  did  when
you suddenly realized you had swum out too far and the water was over your 
head. There was
an intuitive flash:  We're being drawn into something. Being picked and chosen. 
None of this
is accidental. Are we all here yet?

Then  the  intuition  fell  into  a  meaningless  jumble  of  thought  —  like  
the  smash  of  a  glass
pane  on  a  stone  floor.  Besides,  it  didn't  matter.  Bill  was  here,  
and  Bill  would  take  care;  Bill
would  not  let  things  get  out  of  control.  He  was  the  tallest  of  
them,  and  surely  the  most
handsome.  Richie  only  had  to  look  sideways  at  Bev's  eyes,  fixed  on  
Bill,  and  then  farther,  to
Ben's  eyes,  fixed  knowingly  and  unhappily  on  Bev's  face,  to  know  
that.  Bill  was  also  the
strongest  of  them  —  and  not  just  physically.  There  was  a  good  deal  
more  to  it  than  that,  but
since   Richie   did   not   know   either   the   word   charisma   or   the   
full   meaning   of   the   word
magnetism.,  he  only  felt  that  Bill's  strength  ran  deep  and  might  
manifest  itself  in  many  ways,
some       of  them  probably  unexpected.  And  Richie  suspected  if  Beverly 
 fell  for  him,  or  'got  a
crush  on  him,'  or  whatever  they  called  it,  Ben  would  not  be  jealous 
  (like  he  would,   Richie
thought, if  she  got  a  crush  on  me);  he would accept it as nothing but 
natural. And there was
something  else:  Bill  was  good.  It  was  stupid  to  think  such  a  thing  
(he  did  not,  in  fact,
precisely  think  it;  he  felt  it),  but  there  it  was.  Goodness  and  
strength  seemed  to  radiate  from
Bill.  He  was  like  a  knight  in  an  old  movie,  a  movie  that  was  
corny  but  still  had the power to
make  you  cry  and  cheer  and  clap  at  the  end.  Strong  and  good.  And  
five  years  later,  after  his
memories  of  what  had  happened  in  Derry  both  during  and  before  that  
summer  had  begun  to
fade  rapidly,  it  occurred  to  a  Richie  Tozier  in  his  mid-teens  that  
John  Kennedy  reminded  him
of Stuttering

Bill.

Who? His mind would respond.

He would look up, faintly puzzled, and shake his head.  Some  guy  I  used  to  
know,  he would
think,  and  would  dismiss  vague  unease  by  pushing  his  glasses  up  on  
his  nose and turning to
his homework again. Some guy I used to know a long time ago.

Bill  Denbrough  put  his  hands  on  his  hips,  smiled  sunnily,  and  said:  
'Wuh-wuh-well,  h-here
we a-a-are . . . now wuh-wuh-wuh-what are w-we d-d-doing?'

'Got any cigarettes?' Richie asked hopefully.

11

Five  days  later,  as  June  drew  toward  its  end,  Bill  told  Richie  that 
 he  wanted  to  go  down  to
Neibolt Street and investigate under the porch where Eddie had seen the leper.

They  had  just  arrived  back  at  Richie's  house,  and  Bill  was  walking  
Silver.  He  had  ridden
Richie  double  most  of  the  way  home,  an  exhilarating  speed-trip across 
Derry, but he had been
careful  to  let  Richie  dismount  a  block  away  from  his  house.  If  
Richie's  mother  saw  Bill  riding
Richie double she'd have a bird.


Silver's  wire  basket  was  full  of  play  six-shooters,  two  of  them  
Bill's,  three  of  them  Richie's.
They  had  been  down  in  the  Barrens  for  most  of  the  afternoon,  
playing  guns.  Beverly  Marsh
had  shown  up  around  three  o'clock,  wearing  faded  jeans  and  toting a 
very old Daisy air rifle
that had lost most of its pop   —  when you pulled its tape-wrapped trigger, it 
uttered a wheeze
that  sounded  to  Richie  more  like  someone  sitting  on  a  very  old  
Whoopee  Cushion  than  a
rifleshot.   Her   specialty   was   Japanese-sniper.   She   was   very   good 
  at   climbing   trees   and
shooting  the  unwary  as  they  passed  below.  The  bruise  on  her  
cheekbone  had  faded  to  a  faint
yellow.

'What did you say?' Richie asked. He was shocked . . . but also a little 
intrigued.

'I  w-w-want  to  take  a  l-look  under  that  puh-puh-porch,' Bill said. His 
voice was stubborn
but   he   wouldn't   look   at   Richie.   There   was   a   hard   spot   of  
 flush   high   on   each   of   his
cheekbones.  They  had  arrived  in  front  of  Richie's  house.  Maggie  
Tozier  was  on  the  porch,
reading     a book. She waved to them and called, 'Hi, boys! Want some iced 
tea?'

'We'll  be  right  there,  Mom,'  Richie  said,  and  then  to  Bill:  'There  
isn't  going  to  be  anything
there.  He  probably  just  saw  a  hobo  and  got  all  bent  out  of  shape,  
for  God's  sake.  You  know
Eddie.'

'Y-Yeah,   I   nun-know   E-E-Eddie.  B-But  ruh-remem-member  the  
pi-pi-picture   in   the   a-
album?'

Richie  shifted  his  feet,  uncomfortable.  Bill  raised  his  right  hand.  
The  Band-Aids  were  gone

now, but Richie could see circlets of healing scab on Bill's first three 
fingers.
'Yeah, but — '

'Luh-luh-histen  to  me-me,'  Bill  said.  He  began  to  speak  very  slowly,  
holding  Richie's  eyes

with  his  own.  Once  more  he  related  the  similarities  between  Ben's  
story  and  Eddie's  .  .  .  and
tied  those  to  what  they  had  seen  in  the  picture  that  moved.  He  
suggested  again  that  the  clown
had  murdered  the  boys  and  girls  who  had  been  found  dead  in  Berry  
since  the  previous
December.  'A-And  muh-muh-haybe  not  just  t-thein,'  Bill  finished.  
'W-What  about  a-a-all the
o-ones who d-disappeared? W-What about E-E-Eddie Cuh-Cuh-Corcoran?'

'Shit, his stepfather scared him off,' Richie said. 'Don't you read the 
papers?'

'W-well,  m-maybe  he  d-d-did,  and  m-maybe  he  d-d-didn't,'  Bill  said.  
'I  knew  him  a  -l lih-
little  bit,  t-too,  and  I  nuh-nuh-know his d-dad b-b-beat him. And I a-also 
k-know he u-u-used
to stay out n-nuh-hights s-sometimes to g-get aw-way from h-h-him.'

'So  maybe  the  clown  got  him  while  he  was  staying  away,'  Richie  said 
 thoughtfully.  'Is  that


it?'

Bill nodded.

'What do you want, then? Its autograph?'

'If   the   cluh-cluh-cluh-hown  killed  the  o-o-others,   then   h-he   
k-k-killed  Juh-Georgie,'  Bill

said.  His  eyes  caught  Richie's.  They  were  like  slate   —  hard,  
uncompromising,  unforgiving.  'I
w-want to k-k-kill it.'

'Jesus Christ,' Richie said, frightened. 'How are you going to do that?'

'Muh-my  d-dad's  got  a  pih-pih-pistol,'  Bill  said.  A  little  spittle  
flew  from  his  lips  but  Richie
barely  noticed.  'H-He  doesn't  nuh-know  I  know,  but  I  d-d-do.  It's  on 
 the  top  sh-shelf  in his
cluh-cluh-hoset.'

That's  great  if  it's  a  man,'  Richie  said,  'and  if  we  can  find  him  
sitting  on  a  pile  of  kids'
bones — '

'I poured the tea, boys!' Richie's mom called cheerily. 'Better come and get 
it!'

'Right   there,   Mom!'   Richie   called   again,   offering   a   big,   
false   smile.   It   disappeared
immediately  as  he  turned  back  to  Bill.  'Because  I  wouldn't  shoot  a  
guy  just  because  he  was
wearing      a  clown  suit,  Billy.  You're  my  best  friend,  but  I  
wouldn't  do  it  and  I  wouldn't  let you
do      it if I could stop you.'

'Wh-what i-if there r-really w-was a p-pile of buh-buh-bones?'


Richie  licked  his  lips  and  said  nothing  for  a  moment.  Then  he  asked 
 Bill,  'What  are  you
going  to  do  if  it's  not  a  man,  Billy?  What  if  it  really  is  some  
kind  of  monster?  What  fi there
really  are  such  things?  Ben  Hanscom  said  it  was  the  mummy  and  the  
balloons  were  floating
against  the  wind  and  it  didn't  cast  a  shadow.  The  picture  in  
Georgie's  album  .  .  .  either  we
imagined  that  or  it  was  magic,  and  I  gotta  tell  you,  man,  I  don't  
 think  we  just  imagined  it.
Your fingers sure didn't imagine it, did they?'

Bill shook his head.

'So what are we going to do if it's not a man, Billy?'

'Th-then wuh-wuh-we'll have to f-figure suh-homething e-else out.'

'Oh  yeah,'  Richie  said. 'I can see it. After you shoot it four or five times 
and it keeps comin
at  us  like  the  Teenage  Werewolf  in  that  movie  me  and  Ben  and  Bev  
saw,  you  can  try  your
Bullseye on it. And  if  the  Bullseye  doesn't  work,  I'll  throw  some  of  
my  sneezing  powder  at  it.
And   if it keeps on coming after  that  we'll just call time and say, "Hey 
now, hold on. This ain't
getting it, Mr Monster. Look, I got to read up on it at the library. I'll be 
back. Pawdon  me." Is
that what you're going to say, Big Bill?'

He  looked  at  his  friend,  his  head  thudding  rapidly.  Part  of  him  
wanted  Bill  to  press  on  with
his  idea  to  check  under  the  porch  of  that  old  house,  but  another  
part  wanted  —  desperately
wanted  —  Bill  to  give  the  idea  up.  In  some  ways  all  of  this  was  
like  having  stepped  into one
of  those  Saturday-afternoon  horror  movies  at  the  Aladdin,  but  in  
another  way  —  a  crucial
way  —  it  wasn't  like  that  at  all.  Because  this  wasn't  safe  like  a  
movie,  where  you  knew
everything  would  turn  out  all  right  and  even  if  it  didn't  it  was  
no  skin off your ass. The picture
in  Georgie's  room  hadn't  been  like  a  movie.  He  had  thought  he  was  
forgetting  that,  but
apparently  he  had  been  fooling  himself  because  now  he  could  see  
those  cuts  whirling  up
Billy's fingers. If he hadn't pulled Bill back —

Incredibly,  Bill  was  grinning.  Actually  grinning.  'Y-Y-You  wuh-wanted  
m-me  to  take  y-
you  to  luh-luh-look  at  a  p-picture,'  he  said.  'N-Now  I  w-want  to  
t-take  you  to  l-look  at  a  h-
house. Tit for t-tat.'

'You got no tits,' Richie said, and they both burst out laughing.

'T-Tomorrow muh-muh-morning,' Bill said, as if it had been resolved.

'And  if  it's  a  monster?'  Richie  asked,  holding  Bill's  eyes.  'If  your 
 dad's  gun  doesn't  stop  it,
Big Bill? If it just keeps coming?'

'Wuh-wuh-we'll  thuh-thuh-think  of  suh-homething  else,'  Bill  said  again.  
'We'll  h-h-have  to.'
He  threw  back  his  head  and  laughed  like  a  loon.  After  a  moment  
Richie  joined  him.  It  was
impossible not to.

They  walked  up  the  crazy-paving  to  Richie's  porch  together.  Maggie  
had  set  out  huge
glasses of iced tea with mint-sprigs in them and a plate of vanilla wafers.

'Yuh-you w-w-want t-t-to?'
'Well, no,' Richie said. 'But I will.'

Bill  clapped  him  on  the  back,  hard,  and  that  seemed  to  make  the  
fear  bearable  — although

Richie was suddenly sure (and he was not wrong) that sleep would be long coming 
that night.

'You  boys  looked  like  you  were  having  a  serious  discussion  out  
there,'  Mrs  Tozier  said,
sitting  down  with  her  book  in  one  hand  and  a  glass  of  iced  tea  in 
 the  other.  She ol oked at the
boys expectantly.

'Aw,  Denbrough's  got  this  crazy  idea  the  Red  Sox  are  going  to  
finish  in  the  first  division,'
Richie said.

'M-Me  and  my  d-d-d-d-dad th-think  t-they got a sh-shot  at  t-third,' Bill 
said, and slipped his

iced tea. T-This is veh-veh-very go-good, Muh-Mrs Tozier.'
Thank you, Bill.'

'The  year  the  Sox  finish  in  the  first  division  will  be  the  year  
you  stop  stuttering,  mush

mouth,' Richie said.


'Richie!'  Mrs  Tozier  screamed,  shocked.  She  nearly  dropped  her  glass  
of  iced tea. But both
Richie  and  Bill  Denbrough  were  laughing  hysterically,  totally  cracked  
up.  She  looked  from
her  son  to  Bill  and  back  to  her  son  again,  touched  by  wonder  that  
was  mostly  simple
perplexity  but  partly  a  fear  so  thin  and  sharp  that  it  found  it s  
way  deep  into  her  inner  heart
and vibrated there like a tuning-fork made of clear ice.

I  don't  understand  either  of  them,  she thought.  Where they go, what they 
do, what they
want  . . . or  what  will  become  of  them.  Sometimes,  oh  sometimes  their 
 eyes  are wild, and
sometimes I'm afraid for them and sometimes I'm afraid of them . . .

She  found  herself  thinking,  not  for  the  first  time,  that  it  would  
have  been  nice  if  she  and

Went  could  have  had  a  girl  as  well,  a  pretty  blonde  girl  that  she  
could  have  dressed  in  skirts
and  matching  bows  and  black  patent-leather  shoes  on  Sundays.  A  pretty 
 little  girl  who  would
ask   to   bake   cupcakes   after   school   and   who   would   want   dolls  
 instead   of   books   on
ventriloquism and Revell models of cars that went fast.

A pretty little girl she could have understood.

12

'Did you get it?' Richie asked anxiously.

They  were  walking  their  bikes  up  Kansas  Street  beside  the  Barrens  at 
 ten  o'clock  the  next
morning.  The  sky  was  a  dull  gray.  Rain  had  been  forecast  for  that  
afternoon.  Richie  hadn't
gotten  to  sleep  until  after  midnight  and  he  thought  Denbrough  looked  
as  if  he  had  spent  a
fairly  restless  night  himself;  ole  Big  Bill  was  toting  a  matched  set 
 of  Samsonite  bags,  one
under each eye.

'I g-got it,' Bill said. He patted the green duffel coat he was wearing.
'Lemme see,' Richie said, fascinated.

'Not  now,'  Bill  said,  and  then  grinned.  'Someone  eh-eh-else  might  
see,  too.  But  l-l-look
what  else  I  bruh-brought.'  He  reached  behind  him,  under  the  coat,  
and  brought  his  Bullseye
slingshot out of his back pocket.

'Oh shit, we're in trouble,' Richie said, beginning to laugh.

Bill pretended to be hurt. 'Ih-Ih-It was y-your idea, T-T-Tozier.'

Bill  had  gotten  the  custom  aluminum  slingshot  for  his  birthday  the  
year  before.  It  had  been
Zack's  compromise  between  the  .22  Bill  had  wanted  and  his mother's 
adamant refusal to even
consider  giving  a  boy  Bill's  age  a  firearm.  The  instruction  booklet  
said  a  slingshot  could  be  a
fine  hunting  weapon,  once  you  learned  to  use  it.  'In  the  right  
hands,  your  Bullseye  Slingshot
is   as   deadly   and   effective   as   a   good   ash   bow   or   a   
high-powered  firearm,'  the  booklet
proclaimed.  With  such  virtues  dutifully  extolled,  the  booklet  went  on  
to  warn  that  a  slingshot
could  be  dangerous;  the  owner  should  no  more  aim  one  of  the  twenty  
ball-bearing  slugs
which came with it at a person than he would aim a loaded pistol at a person.

Bill  wasn't  very  good  at  it  yet  (and  guessed  privately  he  probably  
never  would  be),  but  he
thought  the  booklet's  caution  was merited  —  the  slingshot's  thick  
elastic  had  a  hard  pull,  and
when you hit a tin can with it, it made one hell of a hole.

'You doin any better with it, Big Bill?' Richie asked.

'A  luh-luh-little,'  Bill  said.  This  was  only  partly  true.  After  much  
study  of  the  pictures  in
the  booklet  (which  were  labelled   figs,  as  in  fig  1,  fig  2,  and  so 
 on)  and  enough  practice  in
Derry  Park  to  lame  his  arm,  he  had  gotten  so  he  could  hit  the  
paper  target  which  had  also
come  with  the  slingshot  maybe  three  times  out  of  every  ten  tries.  
And  once  he  had  gotten  a
bullseye. Almost.


Richie  pulled  the  sling  back  by  the  cup,  twanged  it,  then  handed  it 
 back.  He  said  nothing
but  privately  doubted  if  it  would  count  for  as  much  as  Zack  
Denbrough's  pistol  when  it  came
to killing monsters.

'Yeah?'  he  said.  'You  brought  your  slingshot,  okay,  big  deal.  That's  
nothing.  Look  what  I
brought,  Denbrough.'  And  from  his  own  jacket  he  hauled  out  a  packet  
with  a  cartoon  picture
on  it  of  a  bald  man  saying  Ah-CHOO!  as  his  cheeks  puffed  out  like  
Dizzy  Gillespie's.  DR
WACKY'S SNEEZING POWDER, the packet said. IT'S A LAFF RIOT!

The two of them stared at each other for a long moment and then broke up, 
screaming with
laughter and pounding each other on the back.

'W-W-We're  pruh-prepared  for  a-a-anything,'  Bill  said  finally,  still  
giggling  and  wiping  his
eyes with the sleeve of his jacket.

'Your face and my ass, Stuttering Bill,' Richie said.

'I  th-th-thought  it  wuh-was  the  uh-uh-other  way  a-around,'  Bill  said.  
'Now  listen.  W-We're
g-gonna  st-ha-hash  y-your  b-b-bike  down  in  the  B-Barrens.  W-Where  I  
puh-put Silver when
we  play.  Y-You  ride  d-d-double  b-behind me, in c-case  w-we have to make a 
quih-hick  g-g-
getaway.'

Richie   nodded,   feeling   no   urge   to   argue.   His   twenty-two-inch   
Raleigh   (he   sometimes
whammed  his  kneecaps  on  the  handlebars  when  he  was  pedaling  fast)  
looked  like  a  pygmy
bike  next  to  the  scrawny,  gantry  like  edifice  that  was  Silver.  He  
knew  that  Bill  was  stronger
and Silver was faster.

They  got  to  the  little  bridge  and  Bill  helped  Richie  stow  his  bike  
underneath.  Then  they  sat
down,  and,  with  the  occasional  rumble  of  traffic  passing  over  their  
heads,  Bill  unzipped  his
duffel and took out his father's pistol.

'Y-You   be   goddam   c-c-careful,'  Bill  said,  handing  it  over  after  
Richie  had  whistled  his
frank approval. 'Th-There's n-no s-s-safety on a pih-pihstol like that.'

'Is  it  loaded?'  Richie  asked,  awed.  The  pistol,  an  SSPK-Walther  that  
Zack  Denbrough  had

picked up during the Occupation, seemed unbelievably heavy.

'N-Not  y-yet,'  Bill  said.  He  patted  his  pocket.  'I  g-g-got  some  
buh-buh-buh-bullets  in  h-h-
here.  But  my  d-d-dad  s-says  s-sometimes  you  l-look  a-and  th-then,  
i-if  the  g-g-g-gun  th-
thinks  y-you're  not  being  c-c-careful,  it  l-loads  ih-ih-itself.  S-so  
it  can  sh-sh-hoot  you.'  His
face  uttered  a  strange  smile  which  said  that,  while  he  didn't  
believe  anything  so  silly,  he
believed it completely.

Richie  understood.  There  was  a  caged  deadliness  in  the  thing  that  he 
 had  never  sensed  in
his  dad's  .22,  .30-.30,  or  even  the  shotgun  (although  there  was  
something  about  the  shotgun,
wasn't there?  —  something about the way it leaned, mute and oily, in the 
corner of the garage
closet;  as  if  it  might  say  I  could  be  mean  if  I  wanted  to;  plenty 
 mean,  you  bet  if it could
speak).  But  this  pistol,  this  Walther  .  .  .  it  was  as  if  it  had  
been  made  for  the  express  purpose
of  shooting  people.  With  a  chill  Richie  realized  that   was  why  it  
had  been  made.  What  else
could you do with a pistol? Use it to light your cigarettes?

He  turned  the  muzzle  toward  him,  being  careful  to  keep  his  hands  
far  away  from  the
trigger.  One  look  into  the  Walther's  black  lidless  eye  made  him  
understand  Bill's  peculiar
smile  perfectly.  He  remembered  his  father  saying,   If  you  remember  
there  is  no  such thing as
an unloaded gun, you'll be okay with firearms all your life, Richie. He handed 
the gun back to
Bill, glad to be rid of it.

Bill  stowed  it  in  his  duffel  coat  again.  Suddenly  the  house  on  
Neibolt  Street  seemed  less
frightening  to  Richie  .  .  .  but  the  possibility  that  blood  might  
actually  be  spilled  —  that
seemed much stronger.

He looked at Bill, perhaps meaning to appeal this idea again, but he saw Bill's 
face, read it,
and only said, 'You ready?'


13

As  always,  when  Bill  finally  pulled  his  second  foot  up  from  the  
ground,  Richie  felt  sure  that
they   would   crash,   splitting   their   silly   skulls   on   unyielding   
cement.   The   big   bike   wavered
crazily  from  side  to  side.  The  cards  clothespinned  to  the  
fender-struts  stopped  firing  single
shots  and  started  machine-gunning.  The  bike's  drunken  wavers  became  
more  pronounced.
Richie closed his eyes and waited for the inevitable.

Then Bill bellowed, 'Hi-yo Silver, AWWAYYYYY!'

The  bike  picked  up  more  speed  and  finally  stopped  that  seasick  
side-to-side  wavering.
Richie  loosened  his  deathgrip  on  Bill's  middle  and  held  the  front  of 
 the  package  carrier  over
the  rear  wheel  instead.  Bill  crossed  Kansas  Street  on  a  slant,  raced 
 down  sidestreets  at  an
ever-quickening  pace,  heading  for  Witcham  as  if  racing  down  a  set  of 
 geographical  steps.
They  came  bulleting  out  of  Strapham  Street  and  onto  Witcham  at  an  
exorbitant  rate  of  speed.
Bill laid Silver damn near over on his side and bellowed 'Hi-yo Silver!' again.

'Ride   it,   Big   Bill!'   Richie   screamed,   so   scared   he   was  
nearly  creaming  his  jeans  but
laughing wildly all the same. 'Stand on this baby!'

Bill  suited  the  action  to  the  word,  getting  up  and  leaning  over  the 
 handlebars  and  pumping
the  pedals  at  a  lunatic  rate.  Looking  at  Bill's  back,  which  was  
amazingly  broad for a boy of
eleven-going-on-twelve,  watching  it  work  under  the  duffel  coat,  the  
shoulders  slanting  first
one  way  and  then  the  other  as  he  shifted  his  weight  from  one  pedal 
 to  the  other,  Richie
suddenly  became  sure  that  they  were  invulnerable  .  .  .  they would  
live  forever  and  ever.  Well

.  .  .  perhaps  not  they,  but  Bill  would.  Bill  had  no  idea  of  how  
strong  he  was,  how  somehow
sure and perfect.

They  sped  along,  the  houses  thinning  out  a  little  now,  the  streets  
crossing  Witcham  at
longer intervals.

'Hi-yo  Silver!'  Bill  yelled,  and  Richie  hollered  in  his  Nigger  Jim  
Voice,  high  and  shrill,  'Hi-
yo  Silvuh,  massa,  thass  rant!  You  is  rahdin  disyere  bike  fo  sho!   
Lawks-a-mussy!   Hi-yo
Silvuh AWWAYYY!'

Now  they  were  passing  green  fields  that  looked  flat  and  depthless  
under  the  gray  sky.
Richie could see the old brick train station up ahead in the distance. To the 
right of it quonset
warehouses marched off in a row. Silver bumped over one set of train tracks, 
then another.

And  here  was  Neibolt  Street,  cutting off to the right.  DERRY TRAINYARDS,  
a blue sign under
the  street-sign  read.  It  was  rusty  and  hung  askew.  Below  this  was  a 
 much  bigger  sign,  yellow
field,  black  letters.  It  was  almost  like  a  comment  on  the  trainyards 
 themselves:   DEAD  END,  it
read.

Bill  turned  onto  Neibolt  Street,  coasted  to  the  sidewalk,  and  put  
his  foot  back  down.  'Let's
w-w-walk from here.'

Richie slipped off the package carrier with mingled feelings of relief and 
regret. 'Okay.'

They  walked  along  the  sidewalk,  which  was cracked  and  weedy.  Up  ahead 
 of  them,  in  the
trainyards,  a  diesel  engine  revved  slowly  up,  faded  off,  and  then  
began  all  over  again.  Once
or twice they heard the metallic music of couplings being smashed together.

'You scared?' Richie asked Bill.

Bill,  walking  Silver  by  the  handlebars,  looked  over  at  Richie  briefly 
 and  then  nodded.  'Y-
Yeah. You?'

'I sure am,' Richie said.

Bill  told  Richie  he  had  asked  his  father  about  Neibolt  Street  the  
night  before.  His  father
said  that  a  lot  of  trainmen  had  lived  out  this  way  until  the  end  
of  World  War  II  — engineers,
conductors,   signalmen,   yardworkers,   baggage   handlers.   The   street   
had   declined   with   the
trainyards,  and  as  Bill  and  Richie  moved  farther  along  it,  the  
houses  became  farther  apart,


seedier,  dirtier.  The  last  three  or  four  on  both  sides  were  empty  
and  boarded  up,  their  yards
overgrown.  A  FOR   SALE   sign  flapped  forlornly  from  the  porch  of  
one.  To  Richie  the  sign
looked about a thousand years old. The sidewalk stopped, and now they were 
walking along a
beaten track from which weeds grew half-heartedly.

Bill stopped and pointed. 'Th-there it i-i-is,' he said softly.

Twenty-nine  Neibolt  Street  had  once  been  a  trim  red  Cape  Cod.  Maybe, 
 .Richie  thought,
an  engineer  used  to  live  there,  a  bachelor  with no pants but jeans and 
lots of those gloves with
the big stiff cuffs and four or five pillowtick caps  —  a fellow who would 
come home once or
twice  a  month  for  stretches  of  three  or  four  days  and  listen  to  
the  radio  while  he  pottered  in
the  garden;  a  fellow  who  would  eat  mostly  fried  foods  (and   no  
vegetables, although he would
grow  them  for  his  friends)  and  who  would,  on  windy  nights,  think  
about  the  Girl  He  Left
Behind.

Now  the  red  paint  had  faded  to  a  wishy-washy pink that was peeling away 
in ugly  patches
that  looked  like  sores.  The  windows  were  blind  eyes,  boarded  up.  
Most  of  the  shingles  were
gone.  Weeds  grew  rankly  down  both  sides  of  the  house  and  the  lawn  
was  covered  with  the
season's  first  bumper  crop  of  dandelions.  To  the  left,  a  high  board  
fence, perhaps once a neat
white  but  now  faded  to  a  dull  gray  that  almost  matched  the  lowering 
 sky,  lurched  drunkenly
in   and   out   of   the   dank   shrubbery.   About   halfway   down   this   
fence   Richie   could   see   a
monstrous grove of sunflowers  —  the  tallest  looked  five  feet tall or 
more. They had a bloated,
nasty  look  he  didn't  like.  A  breeze  rustled  them  and  they  seemed  to 
 nod  together:   The boys
are here, isn't that nice? More boys. Our boys. Richie shivered.

While  Bill  leaned  Silver  carefully  against  an  elm,  Richie  surveyed  
the  house.  He  saw  a
wheel  sticking  out  of  the  thick  grass  near  the  porch,  and  pointed  
it  out  to  Bill.  Bill  nodded;  it
was the overturned trike Eddie had mentioned.

They  looked  up  and  down  Neibolt  Street.  The  chug  of  the  diesel  
engine  rose  and  fell off,
then  began  again.  The  sound  seemed  to  hang  in  the  overcast  like  a  
charm.  The  street  was
utterly  deserted.  Richie  could  hear  occasional  cars  passing  on  Route  
2,  but  could  not  see
them.

The diesel engine chugged and faded, chugged and faded.

The huge sunflowers nodded sagely together. Fresh boys. Good boys. Our boys.

'Y-Y-You r-ruh-ready?' Bill asked, and Richie jumped a little.

'You  know,  I  was  just  thinking  that  maybe  the  last  bunch  of  library 
 books  I  took  out  are
due today,' Richie said. 'Maybe I ought to — '

'Cuh-Cuh-Cut the c-crap, R-R-Richie. Are y-you ready or n-n-not?'

'I  guess  I  am,'  Richie  said,  knowing  he  was  not  ready  at  all  —  he 
was  never  going to be
ready for this scene.

They crossed the overgrown lawn to the porch.
'Luh-look th-th-there,' Bill said.

At  the  far  lefthand  side,  the  porch's  latticework  skirt  leaned  out  
against  a  tangle  of  bushes.

Both boys could see the rusty nails that had been pulled free. There were old 
rosebushes here,
and  while  the  roses both to the right and the left of the unanchored stretch 
of latticework were
blooming  in  a  lackadaisical  way,  those  directly  around  and  in  front  
of  it  were  skeletal  and
dead.

Bill  and  Richie  looked  at  each  other  grimly.  Everything  Eddie  said  
seemed  true  enough;
seven weeks later, the evidence was still here.

'You don't really want to go under there, do you?' Richie asked. He was almost 
pleading.

'Nuh-nuh-no,' Bill said, 'b-but I'm g-gonna.'

And  with  a  sinking  heart,  Richie  saw  that  he  absolutely meant it. That 
gray light was back
in  Billy's  eyes,  shining  steadily.  There  was  a  stony  eagerness  in  
the  lines  of  his  face  that  made
him look older. Richie thought,  I think  he  really  does  mean  to  kill  it, 
 if  it's  still  there.  Kill  it


and maybe cut off its head and take it to his father and say, 'Look, this is 
what killed Georgie,
now will you talk to me again at night, maybe just tell me how your day was, or 
who lost
when you guys were flipping to see who paid for the morning coffee?'

'Bill —  ' he said, but Bill was no longer there. He was walking around to the 
righthand end
of  the  porch,  where  Eddie  must  have  crawled  under.  Richie  had  to  
chase  after  him,  and  he
almost fell over the trike caught in the weeds and slowly rusting its way into 
the ground.

He  caught  up  as  Bill  squatted,  looking  under  the  porch.  There  was  
no  skirt  at  all  on  this
end;   someone  —   some   hobo  —  had  pried  it  off  long  ago  to  gain  
access  to  the  shelter
underneath, out of the January snow or the cold November rain or a summer 
thundershower.

Richie  squatted  beside  him,  his  heart  thudding  like  a  drum.  There  
was  nothing  under  the
porch   but   drifts   of   moldering   leaves,   yellowing   newspapers,   and 
  shadows.   Too   many
shadows.

'Bill,' he repeated.

'Wh-wh-what?'  Bill  had  produced  his  father's  Walther  again.  He  pulled  
the  clip  carefully
from  the  grip,  and  then  took  four  bullets  from  his  pants  pocket.  He 
 loaded  them  in  one  at  a
tune.   Richie   watched   this,   fascinated,   and   then   looked   under   
the   porch   again.   He   saw
something  else  this  tune.  Broken  glass.  Faintly  glinting  shards  of  
glass.  His  stomach  cramped
painfully.   He   was   not   a   stupid   boy,   and   he   understood   this  
 came   close   to   completely
confirming  Eddie's  story.  Splinters  of  glass  on  the  moldering  leaves  
under  the  porch  meant
that       the window had been broken from inside. From the cellar.

'Wh-what?'  Bill  asked  again,  looking  up  at  Richie.  His  face  was  grim 
 and  white.  Looking
at that set face, Richie mentally threw in the towel.

'Nothing,' he said.
'You cuh-cuh-homing?'
'Yeah.'

They crawled under the porch.

The  smell  of  decaying  leaves  was  a  smell  Richie  usually  liked,  but  
there  was  nothing
pleasant about the smell under here. The leaves felt spongy under his hands and 
knees, and he
had    an  impression  that  they might go down for two or three feet. He 
suddenly wondered what
he would do if a hand or a claw sprang out of those leaves and seized him.

Bill  was  examining  the  broken  window.  Glass  had  sprayed  everywhere.  
The  wooden  strip
which  had  been  between  the  panes lay in two splintered pieces under the 
porch steps. The top
of the window frame jutted out like a broken bone.

'Something  hit  that  fucker  wicked  hard,'  Richie  breathed.  Bill,  now  
peering  inside  —  or
trying to — nodded.

Richie  elbowed  him  aside  enough  so  he  could  look,  too.  The  basement  
was  a  dim  litter  of
crates  and  boxes.  The  floor  was  earth  and,  like  the  leaves,  it  gave 
 off  a  damp  and  humid
aroma.  A  furnace  bulked  to  the  left,  thrusting  round  pipes  at  the  
low  ceiling.  Beyond  it,  at  the
end  of  the  cellar,  Richie  could  see  a  large  stall  with  wooden  
sides.  A  horse  stall  was  his  first
thought,  but  who  kept  horses  in  the  jeezly  cellar?  Then  he  realized  
that  in  a  house  as  old  as
this  one,  the  furnace  must  have  burned  coal  instead  of  oil.  Nobody  
had  bothered  to  convert
the  furnace  because  no  one  wanted  the  house.  That  thing  with  the  
sides  was  a  coalbin.  To  the
far right, Richie could make out a flight of stairs going up to ground level.

Now  Bill  was  sitting  down  .  .  .  hunching  himself  forward  .  .  .  
and  before  Richie  could
actually believe what he was up to, his friend's legs were disappearing into 
the window.

'Bill!' he hissed. 'Chrissake, what are you doing? Get outta there!'

Bill  didn't  reply.  He  slithered  through,  scraping  his  duffel  coat  up  
from  the  small  of  his
back,  barely  missing  a  chunk  of  glass  that  would  have  cut  him  a  
good  one.  A  second  later
Richie heard his tennies smack down on the hard earth inside.


'Piss   on   this   action,'   Richie   muttered   frantically   to   himself,  
 looking   at   the   square   of
darkness into which his friend had disappeared. 'Bill, you gone out of your 
mind?

Bill's  voice  floated  up:  'Y-You  c-c-can  stay  up  th-there  if  you  
w-want,  Ruh-Ruh-Richie.  St-
Stand g-g-guard.'

Instead  he  rolled  over  on  his  belly  and  shoved  his  legs  through  the 
 cellar  window  before
his nerve could go bad on him, hoping he wouldn't cut his hands or his stomach 
on the broken
glass.

Something clutched his legs. Richie screamed.

'I-I-It's  juh-juh-hust  m-me,'  Bill  hissed,  and  a  moment  later Richie 
was standing beside him
in the cellar, pulling down his shirt and his jacket. 'Wh-who d-did you 
th-think it w-was?'

'The boogeyman,' Richie said, and laughed shakily.

'Y-You g-go th-that w-way and I-I — I'll g-g-g — '

'Fuck that,'  Richie  said.  He  could  actually  hear  his  heartbeat  in  his 
 voice,  making  it  sound
bumpy and uneven, first up and then down. 'I'm stickin with you, Big Bill.'

They  moved  toward  the  coalpit  first,  Bill  slightly  in  the  lead,  the  
gun  in  his  hand,  Richie
close  behind  him,  trying  to  look  everywhere  at  once.  Bill  stood  
beyond  one  of  the  coalpit's
jutting  wooden  sides  for  a  moment,  and  then  suddenly  darted  around  
it,  pointing  the  gun  with
both  hands.  Richie  squinched  his  eyes  shut,  steeling  himself  for  the  
explosion. It didn't come.
He opened his eyes again cautiously.

'Nuh-nuh-nothin but c-c-coal,' Bill said, and giggled nervously.

Richie  stepped  up  beside  Bill  and  looked.  There  was  still  a  drift  
of  old  coal piled up almost
to  the  ceiling  at  the  back  of  the stall and trickling away to a lump or 
two by their feet. It was
as black as a crow's wing.

'Let's  —  '  Richie  began,  and  then  the  door  at  the  head  of  the  
cellar  stairs  crashed  open
against the wall with a violent bang, spilling thin white daylight down the 
stairs.

Both boys screamed.

Richie  heard  snarling  sounds.  They  were  very  loud  —  the  sounds  a  
wild  animal  in  a  cage
might make. He saw loafers descend the steps. Faded jeans on top of them  — 
swinging hands

-

But they weren't hands . . . they were paws. Huge, misshapen paws.

'Cuh-cuh-climb   the   c-c-coal!'   Bill   was   screaming,   but   Richie   
stood   frozen,   suddenly
knowing  what  was  coming  for  them,  what  was  going  to  kill  them  in  
this  cellar  that  stank  of
damp  earth  and  the  cheap  wine  that  had  been  spilled  in  the  corners. 
 Knowing  but  needing  to
see. 'There's a wuh-wuh-window at the t-top of the c-coal!'

The  paws  were  covered  with  dense  brown  hair  that  curled  and  coiled  
like  wire;  the  fingers
were  tipped  with  jagged  nails.  Now  Richie  saw  a  silk  jacket.  It  was 
 black  with  orange  piping

— the Derry High School colors.

'G-G-Go!'  Bill  screamed,  and  gave  Richie  a  gigantic  shove.  Richie  
went  sprawling  into  the
coal.  Sharp  jags  and  corners  of  it  poked  him  painfully,  breaking  
through  his  daze.  More coal
avalanched over his hands. That mad snarling went on and on.

Panic slipped its hood over Richie's mind.

Barely  aware  of  what  he  was  doing,  he  scrambled  up  the  mountain  of  
coal,  gaining  ground,
sliding  back,  lunging  upward  again,  screaming  as  he  went.  The  window  
at  the  top  was  grimed
black  with  coal-dust  and  let  in  next  to  no  light  at  all.  It  was  
latched  shut.  Richie  seized  the
latch,  which  was  of  the  sort  that  turned,  and  threw  all  his  weight  
against  it.  The  latch  moved
not at all. The snarling was closer now.

The  gun  went  off  below  him,  the  sound  nearly  deafening  in  the  
closed  room.  Gunsmoke,
sharp  and  acrid,  stung  Richie's  nose.  It  shocked  him  back  to  some  
sort  of  awareness  and  he
realized  that  he  had  been  trying  to  turn  the  thumb-latch  the  wrong  
way.  He  reversed  the


direction  of  the  force  he  was  applying,  and  the  latch  gave  with  a  
protracted  rusty  squeal.
Coaldust sifted down on his hands like pepper.

The  gun  went  off  again  with  a  second  deafening  bang.  Bill  Denbrough  
shouted,  'YOU
KILLED MY BROTHER, YOU FUCKER!'

For  a  moment  the  creature  which  had  come  down  the  stairs  seemed  to  
laugh,  seemed  to
speak  —  it  was  as  if  a  vicious  dog  had  suddenly  begun  to  bark  out 
 garbled  words,  and  for  a
moment  Richie  thought  the  thing  in  the  high-school  jacket  snarled  
back,  I'm  going  to  kill  you
too.

'Richie!'   Bill   screamed   then,   and   Richie   heard   coal   clattering  
 and   falling   again   as   Bill

scrambled  up.  The  snarls  and  roars  continued.  Wood  splintered.  There  
were  mingled  barks
and howls — sounds out of a cold nightmare.

Richie  gave  the  window  a  tremendous  shove,  not  caring  if  the  glass  
broke  and  cut  his
hands  to  ribbons.  He  was  beyond  caring.  It  did  not  break;  it  swung  
outward  on  an  old  steel
hinge  flaked  with  rust.  More  coal-dust  sifted  down,  this  time  on  
Richie's  face.  He  wriggled
out  into  the  side  yard  like  an  eel,  smelling  sweet  fresh  air,  
feeling  the  long  grass  whip  at  his
face.  He  was  dimly  aware  that  it  was  raining.  He  could  see  the  
thick  stalks  of  the  giant
sunflowers, green and hairy.

The  Walther  went  off  a  third  time,  and  the  beast  in  the  cellar  
screamed,  a  primitive  sound
of pure rage. Then Bill cried: 'It's g-got me, Richie! Help! It's g-g-got me!'

Richie  turned  around  on  his  hands  and  knees  and  saw  the  terrified  
circle  of  his  friend's
upturned  face  in  the  square  of  the  oversized  cellar  window  through  
which  a  winter's  load  of
coal had once been funnelled each October.

Bill  was  lying  spreadeagled  on  the  coal.  His  hands  waved  and  
clutched  fruitlessly  for  the
window  frame,  which  was just out of reach. His shirt and jacket were rucked 
up almost to his
breastbone.   And   he   was   sliding   backward   .   .   .   no,   he   was  
 being  pulled  backward   by
something  Richie  could  barely  see.  It  was  a  moving,  bulking  shadow  
behind  Bill.  A  shadow
that snarled and gibbered and sounded almost human.

Richie  didn't  need  to  see  it.  He  had  seen  it  the  previous  Saturday, 
 on  the  screen  of  the
Aladdin  Theater.  It  was  mad,  totally  mad,  but  even  so  it  never  
occurred  to  Richie  to  doubt
either his own sanity or his conclusion.

The  Teenage  Werewolf  had  Bill  Denbrough.  Only  it  wasn't  that  guy  
Michael  Landon  with
a lot of makeup on his face and a lot of fake fur. It was real.

As if to prove it, Bill screamed again.

Richie  reached  in  and  caught  Bill's  hands  in  his  own.  The  Walther  
pistol  was  in  one  of
them,  and  for  the  second  time  that  day  Richie  looked  into  its  black 
 eye  .  .  .  only  this  time  it
was loaded.

They tussled for Bill — Richie gripping his hands, the Werewolf gripping his 
ankles.

'G-G-Get out of h-here, Richie!' Bill screamed. 'G-Get — '

The  face  of  the  Werewolf  suddenly  swam  out  of  the  dark.  Its  
forehead  was  low  and
prognathous,  covered  with  scant  hair.  Its  cheeks  were  hollow  and  
furry.  Its  eyes  were  a  dark
brown,  filled  with  horrible  intelligence,  horrible  awareness.  Its  mouth 
 dropped  open  and  it
began  to  snarl.  White  foam  ran  from  the  corners  of  its  thick  lower  
lip  in  twin  streams  that
dripped  from  its  chin.  The  hair  on  its  head  was  swept  back  in  a  
gruesome  parody  of  a
teenager's d.a. It threw its head back and roared, its eyes never leaving 
Richie's.

Bill   scrambled   up   the   coal.   Richie   seized   his   forearms   and   
pulled.   For   a   moment   he
thought  he  was  actually  going  to  win.  Then  the  Werewolf  laid  hold  
of  Bill's  legs  again  and  he
was  yanked  backward  toward  the  darkness  once  more.  It  was  stronger.  
It  had  laid  hold  of
Bill, and it meant to have him.

Then, with no thought at all about what he was doing or why he was doing it, 
Richie heard

the  Voice  of  the  Irish  Cop  coming  out  of  his  mouth,  Mr Nell's voice. 
But this was not Richie


Tozier  doing  a  bad  imitation;  it  wasn't  even  precisely  Mr  Nell.  It  
was  the  Voice  of  every  Irish
beat-cop  that  had  ever  lived  and  twirled  a  billy  by  its  rawhide  
rope  as  he  tried  the  doors  of
closed shops after midnight:

'Let go of him, boyo, or I'll crack yer thick head! I swear to Jaysus! Leave go 
of him now
or I'll serve ye yer own arse on a platter!'

The  creature  in  the  cellar  let  out  an  ear-splitting  roar  of  rage  .  
.  .  but  it  seemed  to  Richie

that there was another note in that bellow as well. Perhaps fear. Or pain.

He gave one more tremendous tug, and Bill flew out of the window and onto the 
grass. He
stared  up  at  Richie  with  dark  horrified  eyes.  The  front  of  his  
jacket  was  smeared  black  with
coal-dust.

'Kwuh-Kwuh-Quick!'  Bill  panted.  He  was  nearly  moaning.  He  grabbed  at  
Richie's  shirt.
'W-W-We guh-guh-hotta — '

Richie   could   hear   coal   tumbling   and   avalanching   down   again.   A 
  moment   later   the
Werewolf  s  face  filled  the  cellar  window.  It  snarled  at  them.  Its  
paws  clutched  at  the  listless
grass.

Bill still had the Walther  —  he had held on to the gun through all of it. Now 
he held it out
in  both  hands,  his  eyes  squinched  down  to  slits,  and  pulled  the  
trigger.  There  was  another
deafening  bang.  Richie  saw  a  chunk  of  the  Werewolf  s  skull  tear  
free  and  a  torrent  of  blood
spilled  down  the  side  of  its  face,  matting  the  fur  there  and  
soaking  the  collar  of  the  school
jacket it wore.

Roaring, it began to climb out of the window.

Moving  slowly,  dreamily,  Richie  reached  under  his  coat  and  into  his  
back  pocket.  He
brought  out  the  envelope  with  the  picture  of  the  sneezing  man  on  
it.  He  tore  it  open  as  the
bleeding,  roaring  creature  pulled  itself  out  of  the  window,  forcing  
its  way,  claws  digging  deep
furrows  in  the  earth.  Richie  tore  the  packet  open  and  squeezed  it.   
'Git  back  in  yer  place,
boyo!'  he  ordered  in  the  Voice  of  the  Irish  Cop.  A  white  cloud  
puffed  into  the  Werewolf  s
face.  Its  roars  suddenly  stopped.  It  stared  at  Richie  with  almost  
comic  surprise   and made a
choked  wheezing  sound.  Its  eyes,  red  and  bleary,  rolled  toward  Richie 
 and  seemed  to  mark
him once and forever.

Then it began to sneeze.

It   sneezed   again   and   again   and   again.   Ropy   strings   of   
saliva   flew   from   its   muzzle.
Greenish-black  clots  of  snot  flew  out  of  its  nostrils.  One  of  these  
splatted  against  Richie's  skin
and burned there, like acid. He wiped it away with a scream of hurt and 
disgust.

There  was  still  anger  in  its  face,  but  there  was  also  pain —  it  
was  unmistakable.  Bill  might
have  hurt  it  with  his  dad's  pistol,  but  Richie  had  hurt  it  more  .  
.  .  first  with  the  Voice  of  the
Irish Cop, and then with the sneezing powder.

Jesus, if I had some itching powder too and maybe a joy buzzer I might be able 
to kill it,

Richie thought, and then Bill grabbed the collar of his jacket and jerked him 
backward.

It  was  well  that  he  did.  The  Werewolf  stopped  sneezing  as  suddenly  
as  it  had  started  and
lunged at Richie. It was quick, too — incredibly quick.

Richie  might  have  only  sat  there  with  the  empty  envelope  of  Dr  
Wacky's  sneezing  powder
in  one  hand,  staring  at  the  Werewolf  with  a  kind  of  drugged wonder, 
thinking how brown its

fur  was,  how  red  the  blood  was,  how  nothing  was  in  black  and  white 
 in  real  life,  he  might
have  sat  there  until its paws closed around his neck and its long nails 
pulled his throat out, but
Bill grabbed him again and pulled him to his feet.

Richie  stumbled  after  him.  They  ran  around  to  the  front  of  the  
house  and  Richie  thought,   It
won't dare chase us anymore, we're on the street now, it won't dare chase us, 
won't dare,
won't dare —

But   it   was   coming.   He   could   hear   it   just   behind   them,   
gibbering   and   snarling   and

slobbering.


There  was  Silver,  still  leaning  against  the  tree.  Bill  jumped  onto  
the  seat  and  threw  his
father's  pistol  into  the  carrier  basket  where  they  had  carried  so  
many  play  guns.  Richie
chanced  a  glance  behind  him  as  he  flung  himself  onto  the  package  
carrier  and  saw  the
Werewolf  crossing  the  lawn  toward  them,  less  than  twenty  feet  away  
now. Blood and slobber
mixed  on  its  high-school  jacket.  White  bone  gleamed  through  its  pelt  
about  the  right  temple.
There  were  white  smudges  of  sneezing  powder  on  the  sides  of  its  
nose.  And  Richie  saw  two
other  things  which  seemed  to  complete  the  horror.  There  was  no  
zipper  on  the  thing's  jacket;
instead  there  were  big  fluffy  orange  buttons,  like  pompoms.  The  other 
 thing  was  worse.  It
was  the  other  thing  that  made  him  feel  as  if  he  might  faint,  or  
just  give  up  and  let  it  kill  him.
A  name  was  stitched  on  the  jacket in gold thread, the kind of thing you 
could get done down
at Machen's for a buck if you wanted it.

Stitched  on  the  bloody  left  breast  of  the  Werewolf  s  jacket,  stained 
 but  readable,  were  the
words RICHIE TOZIER.

It lunged at them.

'Go, Bill!' Richie screamed.

Silver began to move, but slowly — much too slowly. It took Bill so long to get 
going —

The  Werewolf  crossed  the  rutted  path  just  as  Bill  pedaled  into  the  
middle  of  Neibolt  Street.
Blood  splattered  its  faded  jeans,  and  looking  back  over  his  shoulder, 
 filled  with  a  kind  of
dreadful,  unbreakable  fascination  that  was  akin  to  hypnosis,  Richie  
saw  that  the  seams  of  the
jeans were giving way in places, and tufts of coarse brown fur had sprung 
through.

Silver  wavered  wildly  back  and  forth.  Bill  was  standing  up,  gripping  
the  bike's  handlebars
from  underneath,  head  turned  up  toward  the  cloudy  sky,  cords  standing 
 out  on  his  neck.  And
still the playing cards were only firing single shots.

One   paw   groped   for   Richie.   He   screamed   miserably  and  ducked  
away  from  it.  The
Werewolf  snarled  and  grinned.  It  was  close  enough  so  Richie  could  
see  the  yellowing  corneas
of its eyes, could smell sweet rotten meat on its breath. Its teeth were 
crooked fangs.

Richie  screamed  again  as  it  swung  a  paw at him. He was sure it was going 
to take his head
off —  but  the  paw  passed  in  front  of  him,  missing  by  no  more  than  
an  inch.  The  force  of  the
swing blew Richie's sweaty hair back from his forehead.

'Hi-yo Silver AWAYYY!' Bill screamed at the top of his voice.

He  had  reached  the  top  of  a  short,  shallow  hill.  Not  much,  but  
enough  to  get  Silver  rolling.
The  playing  cards  picked  up  speed  and  began  to  burr  along,  gill  
pumped  the  pedals  madly.
Silver stopped wavering and cut a straight course down Neibolt Street toward 
Route 2.

Thank God, thank God, thank God., Richie thought incoherently. Thank —

The  Werewolf  roared  again  —  oh  my  God  it  sounds  like  it's  RIGHT  
BESIDE  ME  — and
Richie's  wind  was  cut  off  as  his  shirt  and  jacket  were  jerked  back  
against his windpipe. He
made  a  gargling,  choking  sound  and  managed  to  grip  Bill's  middle  
just  before  he  was  pulled
off  the  back  of  the  bike.  Bill  tilted  backward  but  held  on  to  
Silver's  handlebar  grips.  For  one
moment  Richie  thought  the  big  bike  would  simply  do  a  wheelie  and  
spill  both  of  them  off  the
back.  Then  his  jacket,  which  had  been  just  about  ready  for  the  
rag-bag anyway, parted down
the  back  with  a  loud  ripping  noise  that  sounded  weirdly  like  a  big  
fart.  Richie  could  breathe
again.

He looked around and stared directly into those muddy murderous eyes.

'Bill!' He tried to howl it, but the word had no force, no sound.

Bill  seemed  to  hear  him  anyway.  He  pedaled  even  harder,  harder  than  
he  ever  had  in  his
life.  All  his  guts  seemed  to  be  rising, coming  unanchored.  He  could  
taste  thick  coppery  blood
in  the  back  of  his  throat.  His  eyeballs  were  starting  from  their  
sockets.  His  mouth  hung  open,
scooping  air.  And  a  crazy,  ineluctable  sense  of  exhilaration  filled  
him  —  something  that  was
wild and free and all his own. A desire. He stood on the pedals; coaxed them; 
battered them.


Silver  continued  to  pick  up  speed.  He  was  beginning  to  feel  the  
road  now,  beginning  to  fly.

Bill could feel him go.

'Hi-yo Silver!' he screamed again. 'Hi-yo Silver, AWAYYY!'

Richie  could  hear  the  fast  rattle-thud  of  loafers  on  the  macadam.  He 
 turned.  The  Werewolf
s  paw  struck  him  above  the  eyes  with  stunning  force,  and  for  a  
moment  Richie  really  did
think  the  top  of  his  head  had  come  off.  Things  suddenly  seemed  dim, 
 unimportant.  Sounds
faded  in  and  out.  The  color  washed  out  of  the  world.  He  turned  
back,  clinging  desperately  to
Bill. Warm blood ran into his right eye, stinging.

The  paw  swung  again,  striking  the  back  fender  this  time.  Richie  felt 
 the  bike  waver  crazily,

for  a  moment  on  the  verge  of  tipping  over,  finally  straightening  out 
 again.  Bill  yelled  Hi-yo
Silver, A WAY! again, but that was distant too, like an echo heard just before 
it dies out.

Richie closed his eyes and held on to Bill and waited for the end.

14

Bill  had  also  heard  the  running  steps  and  understood  that  the  clown  
hadn't  given  up  yet,  but
he  didn't  dare  turn  around  and  look.  He  would  know  if  it  caught  up 
 and  knocked  them  flat.
That was really all he needed to know.

Come on, boy, he thought. Give me everything now! Everything you got! Go, 
Silver! GO!

So  once  again  Bill  Denbrough  found  himself  racing  to  beat  the  devil, 
 only  now  the  devil
was  a  hideously  grinning  clown  whose  face  sweated  white  greasepaint,  
whose  mouth  curved
up in  a  leering  red  vampire  smile,  whose  eyes  were  bright  silver  
coins.  A  clown  who  was,  for
some  lunatic  reason,  wearing  a  Derry  High  School  jacket  over  its  
silvery  suit  with  the  orange
ruff and the orange pompom buttons.

Go, boy, go — Silver, what do you say?

Neibolt  Street  blurred  by  him  now.  Silver  was  starting  to  hum  good  
now.  Had  those
running  footfalls  faded  back  a  bit?  He  still  didn't  dare  turn  around 
 to  see.  Richie  had  him  in  a
death  grip,  he  was  pinching  off  his  wind  and  Bill  wanted  to  tell  
Richie  to  loosen  up  a  little,
but he didn't dare waste breath on that, either..

There,  up  ahead  like  a  beautiful  dream,  was  the  stop-sign  marking  
the  intersection  of
Neibolt  Street  and  Route  2.  Cars  were  passing  back  and  forth  on  
Witcham.  In  his  state  of
exhausted terror, this seemed somehow like a miracle to Bill.

Now,  because  he  would  have  to  put  on  his  brakes  in  a  moment  (or  
do  something  really

inventive), he risked a look back over his shoulder.

What  he  saw  caused  him  to  reverse  Silver's  pedals  with  a  single  
snap-jerk. Silver skidded,
laying  rubber  with  its  locked  rear  tire,  and  Richie's  head  smacked  
painfully  into  the  hollow  of
Bill's right shoulder.

The street was completely empty.

But  twenty-five  yards  or  so  behind  them,  by  the  first  of  the  
abandoned  houses  which
formed  a  kind  of  funeral  cortege  leading  up  to  the  trainyards,  there 
 was  a  bright  flick  of
orange. It lay close to a stormdrain cut into the curbing.

'Uhhnh . . . '

Almost  too  late,  Bill  realized  that  Richie  was  sliding off  the  back  
of  Silver.  Richie's  eyes
were  turned  up  so  Bill  could  only  see  the  lower  rims  of  the  irises 
 below  his  upper  lids.  The
mended bow of his glasses hung askew. Blood was flowing slowly from his 
forehead.

Bill  grabbed  his  arm,  they  both  slipped  to  the  right,  and  Silver  
overbalanced.  They  crashed
to  the  street  in  a  tangle  of  arms  and  legs.  Bill  barked  his  
crazybone  a  good  one  and  shouted
with pain. Richie's eyes flickered at the sound.


'I  am  going  to  show  you  how  to  get  to  thees  treasure,  senhorr,  but 
 thees  man  Dobbs  ees
plenny  dangerous,'  Richie  said  in  a  snoring  gasp.  It  was  his  Pancho  
Vanilla  Voice,  but  its
floating,  unconnected  quality  scared  Bill  badly.  He  saw  several  coarse 
 brown  hairs  clinging
to  the  shallow  head-wound  on  Richie's  forehead.  They  were  slightly  
kinky,  like  his  father's
pubic  hair.  They  made  him  feel  even  more  afraid,  and  he  fetched  
Richie  a  strong  smack
upside the head.

'Yowch!'  Richie  cried.  His  eyes  fluttered,  then  opened  wide.  'What  
are  you  hittin  me  for,
Big  Bill?  You'll  break  my  glasses.  They  ain't  in  very  good  shape  
anyway,  just  in  case  you
didn't notice.'

'I th-th-thought you w-w-were duh-duh-dying, or s-s-something,' Bill said.

Richie  sat  up  slowly  in  the  street  and  put  a  hand  to  his  head.  He 
 groaned.  'What hap  — '
And  then  he  remembered.  His  eyes  widened  in  sudden  shock  and  terror  
and  he  scrambled
around on his knees, gasping harshly.

'Duh-duh-don't,' Bill said. 'I-It's g-g-gone, R-R-Richie. It's gone.'

Richie   saw   the   empty   street   where   nothing  moved  and  suddenly  
burst  into  tears.  Bill
looked  at  him  for  a  moment  and  then  put  his  arms  around  Richie  and 
 hugged  him.  Richie
clutched  at  Bill's  neck  and  hugged  him  back.  He  wanted  to  say  
something  clever,  something
about  how  Bill  should  have  tried  the  Bullseye  on  the  Werewolf,  but  
nothing  would  come  out.
Nothing except sobs.

'D-Don't,  R-Richie,'  Bill  said,  'duh-duh-duh-h-h  —  '  Then  he  burst  
into  tears  himself  and
they  only  hugged  each  other  on  their  knees  in  the  street  beside  
Bill's  spilled  bike,  and  their
tears made clean streaks down their cheeks, which were sooted with coaldust.


C H A P T E R  9

Cleaning Up

1

Somewhere high over New York State on the afternoon of May 29th, 1985, Beverly 
Rogan
begins to laugh again. She stifles it in both hands, afraid someone will think 
she is crazy, but
can't quite stop.

We laughed a lot back then,  she thinks. It is something else, another light on 
in the dark.

We were afraid all the time, but we couldn't stop laughing, any more than I can 
stop now.

The  guy  sitting  next  to  her  in  the  aisle  seat  is  young,  
long-haired,  good-looking. He has
given her several appreciative glances since the plane took off in Milwaukee at 
half past two
(almost two and a half hours ago now, with a stop in Cleveland and another one 
in Philly),
but has respected her clear desire not to talk; after a couple of 
conversational gambits to
which she has responded with politeness but no more, he opens his tote-bag and 
takes out a
Robert Ludlum novel.

Now   he   closes   it,   holding   his   place  with  his  finger,  and  says  
with  some  concern:
'Everything cool with you?'

She nods, trying to make her face serious, and then snorts more laughter. He 
smiles a little,
puzzled, questioning.

'It's nothing,' she says, once again trying to be serious, but it's no good; 
the more she tries
to be serious the more her face wants to crack up. Just like the old days. 
'It's just that all at
once I realized I didn't know what airline I was on. Only that there was a 
great big d-d-duck
on  the  s-s-side  —  ' But the thought is too much. She goes off into gales of 
merry laughter.
People look around at her, some frowning.

'Republic,' he says.
'Pardon?'

'You are whizzing through the air at four hundred and seventy miles an hour 
courtesy of
Republic Airlines. It's on the KYAG folder in the seat pocket.'

'KYAG?'

He  pulls  the  folder  (which  does  indeed  have  the  Republic  logo  on  
the  front)  out  of  the
pocket. It shows where the emergency exits are, where the flotation devices 
are, how to use
the  oxygen  masks,  how  to  assume  the  crash-landing  position.  'The  
kiss-your-ass-goodbye
folder,' he says, and this time they both burst out laughing,

He really  is  good-looking,  she  thinks  suddenly   —  it  is  a  fresh  
thought,  somehow  clear-
eyed,  the  sort  of  thought  you  might  expect  to  have  upon  waking,  
when  your  mind  isn't  all
junked up. He's wearing a pullover sweater and faded jeans. His darkish blond 
hair is tied
back with a piece of rawhide, and this makes her think of the ponytail she 
always wore her
hair  in  when she was a kid. She thinks:  I bet he's got a nice polite college 
-boy's cock. Long
enough to jazz with, not thick enough to be really arrogant.

She starts to laugh again, totally unable to help it. She realizes she doesn't 
even have a
handkerchief with which to wipe her streaming eyes, and this makes her laugh 
harder.

'You better get yourself under control or the stewardess will throw you off the 
plane,' he
says solemnly, and she only shakes her head, laughing; her sides and her 
stomach hurt now.

He hands her a clean white handkerchief, and she uses it. Somehow this helps 
her to get it

under control finally. She doesn't stop all at once, though. It just sort of 
tapers off into little


hitchings  and  gaspings.  Every  now  and  then  she  thinks  of  the  big 
duck on the side of the
plane and belches out another little stream of giggles.

She passes his handkerchief back after a bit. 'Thank you.'

'Jesus, ma'am, what happened to your hand?' He holds it for a moment, 
concerned.

She  looks  down  at  it  and sees the torn fingernails, the ones she ripped 
down to the quick
tipping the vanity over on Tom. The memory of doing that hurts more than the 
fingernails
themselves,  and  that  stops  the  laughter  for  good.  She  takes  her  hand 
 away  from  him,  but
gently.

'I slammed it in the car door at the airport,' she says, thinking of all the 
times she has lied

about things Tom has done to her, and all the times she lied about the bruises 
her father put
on  her.  Is  this  the  last  time,  the  last  lie?  How  wonderful  that  
would  be  .  .  .  almost  too
wonderful to be believed. She thinks of a doctor coming in to see a terminal 
cancer patient
and  saying  The  X-rays  show  the  tumor  is  shrinking.  We  don't  have  
any  idea  why,  but  it's
happening.

'It must hurt like hell,' he says.

'I took some aspirin.' She opens the in-flight magazine again, although he 
probably knows
she's been through it twice already.

'Where are you headed?'

She closes the magazine, looks at him, smiles. 'You're very nice,' she says, 
'but I don't want
to talk. All right?'

'All right,' he says, smiling back. 'But if you want to drink to the big duck 
on the side of the
plane when we get to Boston, I'm buying.'

'Thank you, but I have another plane to catch.'

'Boy, was my horoscope ever wrong this morning,' he says, and reopens his 
novel. 'But you
sound great when you laugh. A guy could fall in love.'

She opens the magazine again, but finds herself looking at her jagged nails 
instead of the

article  on  the  pleasures  of  New  Orleans.  There  are  purple 
blood-blisters under too of them.
In her mind she hears Tom screaming down the stairwell: 'I'll kill you, you 
bitch! You fucking
bitch!' She  shivers,  cold.  A  bitch  to  Tom,  a  bitch  to  the 
seamstresses who goofed up before
important shows and took a Beverly Rogan reaming for it, a bitch to her father 
long before
either Tom or the hapless seamstresses became part of their lives.

A bitch.

You bitch.

You fucking bitch.

She closes her eyes momentarily.

Her foot, cut on a shard of perfume bottle as she fled their bedroom, throbs 
more than her
fingers. Kay gave her a Band-Aid, a pair of shoes, and a check for a thousand 
dollars which
Beverly cashed promptly at nine o'clock at the First Bank of Chicago in Water 
tower Square.

Over Kay's protests, Beverly wrote her own check for a thousand dollars on a 
plain sheet
of typing paper. I read once that they have to take a check no matter what it's 
written on,' she
told  Kay.  Her  voice  seemed  to  be  coming  from  somewhere  else.  A  
radio  in  another  room,
maybe. 'Someone cashed a check once that was written on an artillery shell. I 
read that in
The Book of Lists,  I  think.' She paused, then laughed uneasily. Kay looked at 
her soberly,
even solemnly. 'But I'd cash it fast, before Tom thinks to freeze the 
accounts.'

Although  she  doesn't  feel  tired  (she  is  aware,  however,  that  by  now  
she  must  be  going
purely on nerves and Kay's black coffee), the previous night seems like 
something she must
have dreamed.

She  can  remember  being  followed  by  three  teenaged  boys  who  called  
and  whistled  but
didn't quite dare come right up to her. She remembers the relief that washed 
over her when
she saw the white fluorescent glow of a Seven-Eleven store spilling out onto 
the sidewalks at


an intersection. She went in and let the pimply-faced counterman look down the 
front of her
old blouse and talked him into loaning her forty cents for the pay phone. It 
wasn't hard, the
view being what it was.

She called Kay McCall first, dialing from memory. The phone rang a dozen times 
and she
began  to  fear  that  Kay  was  in  New  York.  Kay's  sleepy  voice  mumbled, 
 'It  better  be  good,
whoever you are' just as Beverly was about to hang up.

'It's Bev, Kay,' she said, hesitated, and then plunged. 'I need help.'

There  was  a  moment  of  silence, and then Kay spoke again, sounding fully 
awake now.
'Where are you? What happened?'

'I'm at a Seven-Eleven on the comer of S trey land Avenue and some other 
street. I . . . Kay,
I've left Tom.'

Kay, quick and emphatic and excited: 'Good! Finally! Hurray! I'll come and gel 
you! That
son of a bitch! That piece of shit! I'll come and get you in the fucking 
Mercedes! I'll hire a
forty-piece band! I'll — '

'I'll take a cab,' Bev said, holding the other two dimes in one sweating palm. 
In the round
mirror at the back of the store she could see the pimply clerk staring at her 
ass with deep and
dreamy  concentration.  'But  you'll  have  to  pay  the  tab  when  I  get  
there.  I  don't  have  any
money. Not a cent.'

'I'll  tip  the  bastard  five  bucks,'  Kay  cried.  'This  is  the  best  
fucking  news  since  Nixon
resigned! You get your buns over here, girl. And  — ' She paused and when she 
spoke again
her  voice  was  serious  and  so  full  of  kindness  and  love  that  Beverly 
 felt  she  might  weep.
'Thank God you finally did it, Bev. I mean that. Thank God.'

Kay  McCall  is  a  former  designer  who  married  rich,  divorced  richer,  
and  discovered
feminist politics in 1972, about three years before Beverly first met her. At 
the time  Of her
greatest  popularity/controversy  she  was  accused of having embraced feminism 
after using
archaic, chauvinistic laws to take her manufacturer husband for every cent the 
law would
allow her.

'Bullshit!' Kay had once exclaimed to Beverly. 'The people who say that stuff 
never had to
go to bed with Sam Chacowicz. Two pumps a tickle and a squirt, that was ole 
Sammy's motto.
The only time he could keep it up for longer than seventy seconds was when he 
was pulling
off in the tub. I didn't cheat him; I just took my combat pay retroactively.'

She wrote three books — one on feminism and the working woman, one on feminism 
and
the family, one on feminism and spirituality. The first two were quite popular. 
In the three
years since her last, she had fallen out of fashion to a degree, and Beverly 
thought it was
something of a relief to her. Her investments had done well ('Feminism and 
capitalism are
not  mutually  exclusive,  thank  God,'  she  had  once  told  Bev)  and  now  
she  was  a  wealthy
woman with a townhouse, a place in the country, and two or three lovers virile 
enough to go
the distance with her in the sack but not quite virile enough to beat her at 
tennis. 'When they
get that good, I drop them at once,' she said, and although Kay clearly thought 
this was a
joke, Beverly wondered if it really was.

Beverly called a cab and when it came she piled into the back with her 
suitcase, glad to be
away from the clerk's eyes, and gave the driver Kay's address.

She  was  waiting  at  the  end  of  her  driveway,  wearing  her  mink  coat  
over  a  flannel
nightgown. Pink fuzzy mules with great big pompoms were on her feet. Not orange 
pompoms,
thank God — that might have sent Beverly screaming into the night again. The 
ride over to
Kay's had been weird: things were coming back to her, memories pouring in so 
fast and so
clearly  that  it  was frightening. She felt as if someone had started up a big 
bulldozer in her
head and begun excavating a mental graveyard she hadn't even known was there. 
Only it was
names  instead  of  bodies  that  were  turning  up,  names  she  hadn't  
thought  of  in  years:  Ben
Hanscom, Richie Tozier, Greta Bowie, Henry Bowers, Eddie Kaspbrak . . . Bill 
Denbrough.


Especially Bill  —  Stuttering Bill, they had called him with that openness of 
children that is
sometimes called candor, sometimes cruelty. He had seemed so tall to her, so 
perfect (until he
opened his mouth and started to talk, that was).

Names . . . places . . . things that had happened.

Alternately hot and cold, she had remembered the voices from the drain . . . 
and the blood.

She had screamed and her father had popped her one. Her father — Tom —

Tears threatened . . . and then Kay was paying the cab-driver and tipping him 
big enough
to make the startled cabbie exclaim, 'Thanks, lady! Wow!'

Kay took her into the house, got her into the shower, gave her a  robe when she 
got out,

made coffee, examined her injuries, Mercurochromed her cut foot, and put a 
Band-Aid on it.
She poured a generous dollop of brandy into Bev's second cup of coffee and 
hectored her into
drinking  every  drop.  Then  she  cooked  them  each  a   rare  strip  steak  
and  sauteed  fresh
mushrooms to go with them.

'All right,' she said. 'What happened? Do we call the cops or just send you to 
Reno to do
your residency?'

'I  can't  tell  you  too  much,'  Beverly  said.  'It  would  sound  too  
crazy.  But  it  was my fault,
mostly — '

Kay slammed her hand down on the table. It made a sound on the polished 
mahogany like
a small-caliber pistol shot. Bev jumped.

'Don't  you  say  that,'  Kay  said.  There  was  high  color  in  her  cheeks, 
 and  her  brown  eyes
were  blazing. 'How long have we been friends? Nine years? Ten? If I hear you 
say it was
your fault one more time, I'm going to puke. You hear me? I'm just going to 
fucking puke. It
wasn't  your  fault  this  time,  or  last  time,  or  the  time  before,  or  
any  of  the  times.  Don't you
know most of your friends thought that sooner or later he'd put you in a body 
cast, or maybe
even kill you?'

Beverly was looking at her wide-eyed.

'And that would have been your fault, at least to a degree, for staying there 
and letting it
happen. But now you're gone. Thank God for small favors. But don't you sit 
there with half of
your fingernails ripped off and your foot cut open and belt -marks on your 
shoulders and tell
me it was your fault.'

'He didn't use his belt on me,' Bev said.  The lie was automatic . . . and so 
was the deep
shame which brought a miserable flush to her cheeks.

'If you're done with Tom, you ought to be done with the lies as well,' Kay said 
quietly, and
she looked at Bev so long and so lovingly that Bev had to  drop her eyes. She 
could taste salt
tears  in  the  back  of  her  throat.  'Who  did  you  think  you  were  
fooling?'  Kay  asked,  still
speaking quietly. She reached across the table and took Ben's hands. 'The dark 
glasses, the
blouses with high necks and long sleeves . . . maybe you fooled a buyer or two. 
But you can't
fool your friends, Bev. Not the people who love you.'

And then Beverly did cry, long and hard, and Kay held her, and later, just 
before going to
bed,  she  told  Kay  what  she  could:  That  an  old  friend  from Derry, 
Maine, where she had
grown up, had called, and had reminded her of a promise she had made long ago. 
The time
to fulfill the promise had arrived, he said. Would she come? She said she 
would. Then the
trouble with Tom had started.

'What was this promise?' Kay asked.

Beverly shook her head slowly. 'I can't tell you that, Kay. Much as I'd like 
to.

Kay chewed on this and then nodded. 'All right. Fair enough. What are you going 
to do
about Tom when you get back from Maine?'

And  Bev,  who had begun to feel more and more that she wouldn't be coming back 
from
Derry, ever, said only: 'I'll come to you first, and we'll decide together. 
Okay?'

'Very much okay,' Kay said. 'Is that a promise, too?'


'As soon as I'm back,' Bev said steadily, 'you can count on it.' And she hugged 
Kay hard.
With Kay's check cashed and Kay's shoes on her feet, she had taken a Greyhound 
north to

Milwaukee, afraid that Tom might have gone out to O'Hare to look for her. Kay, 
who had
gone with her to the bank and the bus depot, tried to talk her out of it.

'O'Hare's lousy with security people, dear,' she said. 'You don't have to worry 
about him. If
he comes near you, what you do is scream your fucking head off.'

Beverly shook her head. 'I want to avoid him altogether. This is the way to do 
it.'
Kay looked at her shrewdly. 'You're afraid he might talk you out of it, aren't 
you?'

Beverly thought of the seven of them standing in the stream, of Stanley and his 
piece of

broken Coke bottle glinting greenly in the sun; she thought of the thin pain as 
he cut her palm
lightly  on  a  slant,  she  thought  of  them  clasping  hands  in  a  
children's  circle,  promising  to
come back if it ever started again . . . to come back and kill it for good.

'No,' she said. 'He couldn't talk me out of this. But he might hurt me, 
security guards or
not. You didn't see him last night, Kay.'

'I've  seen  him  enough  on  other  occasions,'  Kay  said,  her  brows  
drawing  together.  'The
asshole that walks like a man.'

'He was crazy,' Bev said. 'Security guards might not stop him. This is better. 
Believe me.'
'All  right,'  Kay  said  reluctantly,  and  Bev  thought  with  some  
amusement  that  Kay  was

disappointed that there was going to be no confrontation, no big blowoff.

'Cash the check quick,' Beverly told her again, 'before he can think to freeze 
the accounts.

He will, you know.'

'Sure,' Kay said. 'If he does that, I'll go see the son of a bitch with a 
horsewhip and take it
out in trade.'

'You stay away from him,' Beverly said sharply. 'He's dangerous, Kay. Believe 
me. He was

like  —  '  Like  my  father  was  what  trembled  on  her  lips.  Instead  she 
 said,  'He  was  like  a
wildman.'

'Okay,' Kay said. 'Be easy in your mind, dear. Go keep your promise. And do 
some thinking
about what comes after.'

'I will,' Bev said, but that was a lie. She had too many other things to think 
about: what had

happened the summer she was eleven, for instance. Showing Richie Tozier how to 
make his
yo-yo  sleep,  for  instance.  Voices  from  the  drain,  for  instance. And 
something she had seen,
something so horrible that even then, embracing Kay for the last time by the 
long silvery side
of the grumbling Greyhound bus, her mind would not quite let her see it.

Now, as the plane with the duck on the side begins its long descent into the 
Boston area,
her mind turns to that again . . . and to Stan Uris . . . and to an unsigned 
poem that came on a
postcard . . . and the voices . . . and to those few seconds when she had been 
eye to eye with
something that was perhaps infinite.

She looks out the window, looks down, and thinks that Tom's evil is a small and 
petty thing
compared  with  the  evil  waiting  for  her  in  Derry.  If  there  is  a  
compensation,  is  that  Bill
Denbrough  will  be  there  .  .  .  and  there  was  a  time  when   an  
eleven-year-old  girl  named
Beverly  Marsh  loved  Bill  Denbrough.  She  remembers  the  postcard  with  
the  lovely  poem
written on the back, and remembers that she once knew who wrote it. She doesn't 
remember
anymore,  any  more  than  she  remembers  exactly  what  the  poem  said  .  . 
 .  but  she  thinks  it
might have been Bill. Yes, it might well have been Stuttering Bill Denbrough.

She thinks suddenly of getting ready for bed the night after Richie and Ben 
took her to see
those two honor movies. After her first date. She had cracked wise with Richie 
about it — in
those days that had been her defense when she was out on the street — but a pan 
of her had
been touched and excited and a little scared. It really had been her first 
date, even though
there had been two boys instead of one. Richie had paid her way and everything, 
just like a
real date. Then, afterward, there had been those boys who chased them . . . and 
they had


spent the rest of the afternoon in the Barrens . . . and Bill Denbrough had 
come down with
another  kid, she couldn't remember who, but she remembered the way Bill's eyes 
had rested
on  hers  for  a  moment,  and  the  electric  shock  she  had  felt  .  .  .  
the  shock  and  a  flush  that
seemed to warm her entire body.

She remembers thinking of all these things as she pulled on her nightgown and 
went into
the bathroom to wash her face and brush her teeth. She remembers thinking that 
it would
take her a long time to get to sleep that night; because there was so much to 
think about . . .
and  to  think  about  in  a  good  way, because they seemed like good kids, 
like kids you could
maybe goof with and maybe even trust a little bit. That would be nice. That 
would be . . . well,
like heaven.

And thinking these things, she took her washcloth and leaned over the basin to 
get some
water and the voice

2

came whispering out of the drain:
'Help me . . . '

Beverly drew back, startled, the dry washcloth dropping onto the floor. She 
shook her head

a  little,  as  if  to  clear  it,  and  then  she  bent  over  the  basin  
again  and  looked  curiously  at  the
drain.  The  bathroom  was  at  the  back  of  their  four -room  apartment.  
She  could  hear,  faintly,
some  Western  program  going  on  the  TV.  When  it  was  over,  her  father  
would  probably  switch
over to a baseball game, or the fights, and then go to sleep in his easy chair.

The  wallpaper  in  here  was  a  hideous  pattern  of  frogs  on  lily  pads.  
It  bulged  and  swayed
over  the  lumpy  plaster  beneath.  It  was  watermarked  in  some  places,  
actually  peeling  away  in
others.  The  tub  was  rustmarked,  the  toilet  seat  cracked.  One  naked  
40-watt bulb jutted from a
porcelain  socket  over  the  basin.  Beverly  could  remember   —  vaguely —  
that  there  had  once
been   a light fixture, but it had been broken some years ago and never 
replaced. The floor was
covered  with  linoleum  from  which  the  pattern  had  faded,  except  for  a 
 small  patch  under  the
sink.

Not  a  very  cheery  room,  but  Beverly  had  used  it  so  long  that  she  
no  longer  noticed  what  it
looked like.

The  wash-basin  was  also  water-stained.  The  drain  was  a  simple  
cross-hatched  circle about
two inches in diameter. There had once been a chrome facing, but that was also 
long gone. A
rubber  drain-plug  on  a  chain  was  looped  nonchalantly  over  the  faucet  
marked  C.  The  drain -
hole  was  pipe-dark,  and  as  she  leaned  over  it,  she  noticed  for   the 
 first  time  that  there  was  a
faint,  unpleasant  smell  —  a  slightly  fishy  smell  —  coming  from  the  
drain.  She  wrinkled  her
nose a little in disgust.

'Help me — '

She gasped. It  was  a voice. She had thought perhaps a rattle in the pipes . . 
. or maybe just
her imagination . . . some holdover from those movies . . .

'Help me, Beverly . . . '

Alternate  waves  of  coldness  and  warmth  swept  her.  She  had  taken  the  
rubber  band  out  of
her  hair,  which  lay  spread  across  her  shoulders  in  a  bright  cascade. 
 She  could  feel  the  roots
trying to stiffen.

Unaware  that  she  meant  to  speak,  she  bent  over  the  basin  again  and  
half-whispered, 'Hello?
Is  someone  there?'  The  voice  from  the  drain  had  been  that  of  a  
very  young  child  who  had
perhaps  just  learned  to  talk. And in spite of the gooseflesh on her arms, 
her mind searched for
some   rational   explanation.   It   was   an   apartment   house.   The   
Marshes   lived   in   the   back


apartment  on  the  ground  floor.  There  were  four  other  apartments.  
Maybe  there  was  a  kid  in
the building amusing himself by calling into the drain. And some trick of sound 
. . .

'Is  someone  there?'  she  asked  the  drain  in  the  bathroom,  louder  this 
 time.  It  suddenly
occurred to her that if her father happened to come in just now he would think 
her crazy.

There  was  no  answer  from  the  drain,  but  that  unpleasant  smell  seemed 
 stronger.  It  made
her  think  of  the  bamboo  patch  in  the  Barrens,  and  the  dump  beyond  
it;  it  called  up  images  of
slow, bitter smokes and black mud that wanted to suck the shoes off your feet.

There  were  no  really  little  kids  in  the  building,  that  was  the  
thing.  The  Tremonts  had  had  a
boy who was five, and girls who were three and six months, but Mr Tremont had 
lost his job
at the shoe shop on Tracker Avenue, they got behind on the rent, and one day 
not long before
school  let  out  they  had  all  just  disappeared  in  Mr  Tremont's  rusty  
old  Power-Flite  Buick.
There  was  Skipper  Bolton  in  the  front  apartment  on  the  second  floor, 
 but  Skipper  was
fourteen.

'We all want to meet you, Beverly . . . '

Her  hand  went  to  her  mouth  and  her  eyes  widened  in  horror.  For  a  
moment  .  .  .  just  for  a
moment  .  .  .  she  believed  she  had  seen  something  moving  down  there. 
 She  was  suddenly
aware  that  her  hair  was  now  hanging  over  her  shoulders  in  two  thick 
 sheaves,  and  that  they
dangled  close  —  very  close  —  to  that  drainhole.  Some  clear  instinct  
made  her  straighten  up
quick and get her hair away from there.

She  looked  around.  The  bathroom  door  was  firmly  closed.  She  could  
hear  the  TV  faintly,
Cheyenne  Bodie  warning  the  bad  guy  to  put  the  gun  down  before  
someone  got  hurt.  She  was
alone. Except, of course, for that voice.

'Who are you?' she called into the basin, pitching her voice low.

'Matthew  Clements,'  the  voice  whispered.  The  clown  took  me  down  here 
in the pipes and I
died   and   pretty   soon   he'll   come   and   take   you,   Beverly,   and  
 Ben   Hanscom,   and   Bill
Denbrough and Eddie — '

Her  hands  flew  to  her  cheeks  and  clutched  them.  Her  eyes  widened,  
widened,  widened.
She  felt  her  body  growing  cold.  Now  the  voice  sounded  choked  and  
ancient  .  .  .  and  still  it
crawled with corrupted glee.

'You'll  float  down  here  with  your  friends,  Beverly,  we  all  float  
down  here,  tell  Bill  that
Georgie says hello, tell Bill that Georgie misses him but he'll see him soon, 
tell him Georgie
will be in the closet some night with a piece of piano wire to stick in his 
eye, tell him — '

The voice broke up in a series of choking hiccups and suddenly a bright red 
bubble backed
up the drain and popped, spraying beads of blood on the distained porcelain.

The  choking  voice  spoke  rapidly  now,  and  as  it  spoke  it  changed:  
now  it  was  the  young
voice  of  the  child  that  she  had  first  heard,  now  it  was  a  teenaged 
 girl's  voice,  now  — horribly

—  it  became  the  voice  of  a  girl  Beverly  had  known . . . Veronica 
Grogan. But Veronica was
dead, she had been found dead in a sewer-drain —

'I'm Matthew . . . I'm Betty . . . I'm Veronica . . . we're down here . . . 
down here with the

clown . . . and the creature . . . and the mummy . . . and the  werewolf . . . 
and you, Beverly,
we're down here with you, and we float, we change . . . '

A  gout  of  blood  suddenly  belched  from  the  drain,  splattering  the  
sink  and  the  mirror  and

the    wallpaper    with    its    frogs-and-lily-pads    pattern.    Beverly   
 screamed,    suddenly    and
piercingly.  She  backed  away  from  the  sink,  struck  the  door,  
rebounded,  clawed  it  open,  and
ran for the living room, where her father was just getting to his feet.

'What  the  Sam  Hill's  wrong  with  you?'  he  asked,  his  brows  drawing  
together.  The two of
them   were   here   alone   this   evening;   Bev's   mom   was   working   
the   three-to-eleven  shift  at
Green's Farm, Derry's best restaurant.

'The bathroom!' she cried hysterically. 'The bathroom, Daddy, in the bathroom — 
'


'Was  someone  peekin  at  you,  Beverly?  Huh?'  His  arm  shot  out  and  his 
 hand  gripped  her
arm  hard,  sinking  into  the  flesh.  There  was  concern  on  his  face  but 
 it  was  a  predatory
concern, somehow more frightening than comforting.

'No . . . the sink . . . in the sink . . . the . . . the . . . ' She burst into 
hysterical tears before she
could  say  anything  more.  Her  heart  was  thundering  so  hard  in  her  
chest  that  she  thought  it
would choke her.

Al  Marsh  thrust  her  aside  with  an  'O-Jesus-Christ-what-next'  expression 
 on  his  face  and
went into the bathroom. He was in there so long that Beverly became afraid 
again.

Then he bawled: 'Beverly! You come here, girl!'

There was no question of not going. If the two of them had been standing on the 
edge of a
high  cliff  and  he  had  told  her  to  step off  —  right  now,  girl —  her 
instinctive obedience would
almost   certainly   have   carried   her   over   the   edge   before   her   
rational   mind   could   have
intervened.

The  bathroom  door  was  open.  There  her  father  stood,  a  big  man  who  
was  now  losing  the
red-auburn  hair  he  had  passed  on  to  Beverly.  He  was  still  wearing  
his  gray  fatigue  pants  and
his  gray  shirt  (he  was  a  janitor  at  the  Derry Home  Hospital),  and  
he  was  looking  hard  at
Beverly.  He  did  not  drink,  he  did  not  smoke,  he  did  not  chase  
after  women.   I  got  all  the
women  I  need  at  home,  he  said  on  occasion,  and  when  he  said  it  a  
peculiar  secretive  smile
would  cross  his  face  —  it  did  not  brighten  it  but  did  quite  the  
opposite.  Watching  that  smile
was like watching the shadow of a cloud travel rapidly across a rocky field. 
They  take  care  of
me, and when they need it, I take care of them.

'Now just what the Sam Hill is this foolishness all about?' he asked as she 
came in.

Beverly  felt  as  if  her  throat  had  been  lined  with  slate.  Her  heart  
raced  in  her  chest.  She
thought      that      she      might      vomit      soon.      There      was 
     blood      on      the      mirror
running  in  long  drips.  There  were  spots  of  blood  on  the  light  over  
the  sink;  she  could  smell it
cooking  onto  the  40-watt bulb. Blood ran down the porcelain sides of the 
sink and plopped in
fat drops on the linoleum floor.

'Daddy . . . ' she whispered huskily.

He turned, disgusted with her (as he was so often), and began casually to wash 
his hands in
the  bloody  sink.  'Good  God,  girl.  Speak  up.  You  scared  hell  out  of  
me.  Explain  yourself, for
Lord's sake.'

He  was  washing  his  hands  in  the  basin,  she  could  see  blood  staining 
 the  gray  fabric  of  his
pants  where  they  rubbed  against  the  lip  of  the  sink,  and  if  his  
forehead  touched  the  mirror  (it
was close) it would be on his skin. She made a choked noise in her throat.

He  turned  off  the  water,  grabbed  a  towel  on  which  two  fans  of  
blood  from  the  drain  had
splashed,  and  began  to  dry  his  hands.  She  watched,  near  swooning,  as 
 he  grimed  blood  into
his  big  knuckles  and  the  lines  of  his  palms.  She  could  see  blood  
under  his  fingernails  like
marks of guilt.

'Well? I'm waiting.' He tossed the bloody towel back over the rod.

There was blood . . . blood everywhere . . . and her father didn't see it.

'Daddy — ' She had no idea what might have come next, but her father 
interrupted her.

'I  worry  about  you,'  Al  Marsh  said.  'I  don't  think  you're  ever  
going  to  grow  up,  Beverly.
You  go  out  running  around,  you  don't  do  hardly  any  of  the  housework 
 around  here,  you  can't
cook,  you  can't  sew.  Half  the  time  you're  off  on  a  cloud  someplace  
with  your  nose  stuck  in  a
book and the other half you've got vapors and megrims. I worry.'

His  hand  suddenly  swung  and  spatted  painfully  against  her  buttocks.  
She  uttered  a  cry,  her
eyes  fixed  on  his.  There  was  a  tiny  stipple  of  blood  caught  in  his 
 bushy  right  eyebrow.  If I
look at that long enough I'll just go crazy and none of this will matter, she 
thought dimly.


'I  worry  a  lot,'  he  said,  and  hit  her  again,  harder,  on  the  arm  
above  the  elbow.  That  arm
cried  out  and  then  seemed  to  go  to  sleep.  She  would  have  a  
spreading  yellowish-purple bruise
there the next day.

'An awful  lot,'  he  said,  and  punched  her  in  the  stomach.  He  pulled  
the  punch  at  the  last
second,  and  Beverly  lost  only  half  of  her  air.  She  doubled  over,  
gasping,  tears  starting  in  her
eyes.  Her  father  looked  at  her  impassively.  He  shoved  his  bloody  
hands  in  the  pockets  of  his
trousers.

'You got to grow up, Beverly,' he said, and now his voice was kind and 
forgiving. 'Isn't that
so?'

She nodded. Her head throbbed. She cried, but silently. If she sobbed aloud  — 
started what
her father called 'that baby whining '   —  he might go to work on her in 
earnest. Al Marsh had
lived  his  entire  life  in  Derry  and  told  people  who  asked  (and  
sometimes those who did not)
that  he  intended  to  be  buried  here  —  hopefully at the age of one 
hundred and ten. 'No reason
why  I  shouldn't  live  forever,'  he  sometimes  told  Roger  Aurlette,  who  
cut  his  hair  once  each
month. 'I have no vices.'

'Now explain yourself,' he said, 'and make it quick.'

'There  was  —  '  She  swallowed  and  it  hurt  because  there  was  no  
moisture  in  her  throat,
none at all. 'There was a spider. A big fat black spider. It . . . it crawled 
out of the drain and I .

. . I guess it crawled back down.'

'Oh\'  He  smiled  a  little  at  her  now,  as  if  pleased  by  this  
explanation.  'Was  that  it? Damn! If
you'd  told  me,  Beverly,  I  never  would  have  hit  you.  All  girls  are  
scared  of  spiders.  Sam  Hill!
Why didn't you speak up?'

He bent over the drain and  she  had  to  bite  her  lip  to  keep  from  
crying  out  a  warning  .  .  .
and some other voice spoke deep inside her, some terrible voice which could not 
have been a
part  of  her;  surely  it  was  the  voice  of  the  devil  himself:  Let  it  
get  him,  if  it  wants  him.  Let  it
pull him down. Good-fucking-riddance.

She  turned  away  from  that  voice  in  horror.  To  allow  such  a  thought  
to  stay  for  even  a
moment in her head would surely damn her to hell.

He  peered  into  the  eye  of  the  drain.  His  hands  squelched  in  the  
blood  on  the rim of the

basin. Beverly fought grimly with her gorge. Her belly ached where her dad had 
hit her.

'Don't  see  a  thing,'  he  said.  'All  these  buildings  are  old,  Bev.  
Got  drains  the  size  of
freeways,  you  know  it?  When  I  was  janitorin  down  in  the  old  high  
school,  we  used  to  get
drowned  rats  in  the  toilet  bowls  once  in  awhile.  It  drove  the  girls 
 crazy.'  He  laughed  fondly  at
the  thought  of  such  female  vapors  and  megrims.  'Mostly  when  the  
Kenduskeag  was  high.
Less wildlife in the pipes since they put in the new drain system, though.'

He put an arm around her and hugged her.

'Look. You go to bed and don't think about it anymore. Okay?'

She  felt  her  love  for  him.  I  never hit you when you didn't deserve it, 
Beverly,  he told her
once  when  she  had  cried out that some punishment had been unfair. And 
surely that had to be
true,  because  he  was  capable  of  love.  Sometimes  he  would  spend  a  
whole  day  with  her,
showing  her  how  to  do  things  or  just  telling  her  stuff  or  walking  
around  town  with  her,  and
when  he  was  kind  like  that  she  thought  her  heart  would  swell  with  
happiness  until  it  killed
her. She loved him, and tried to understand that he had to correct her often 
because it was (as
he  said)  his  God-given job.  Daughters,  Al Marsh said,  need  more  
correction  than sons.  He
had no sons, and she felt vaguely as if that might be partly her fault as well.

'Okay, Daddy,' she said. 'I won't.'

They  walked  into  her  small  bedroom  together.  Her  right  arm  now  ached 
fiercely from the
blow  it  had  taken.  She  looked  back over her shoulder and saw the bloody 
sink, bloody mirror,
bloody  wall,  bloody  floor.  The  bloody  towel  her  father  had  used  and  
then  hung  casually  over
the rod. She thought:  How can I ever go in there to wash up again? Please God, 
dear God,


I'm sorry if I  had a bad thought about my dad and You can punish me for it if 
You want, I
deserve to be punished, make me fall down and hurt myself or make me have the 
flu like last
winter when I coughed so hard once I threw up but please God make the blood be 
gone in the
morning, pretty please, God, okay? Okay?

Her  father  tucked  her  in  as  he  always  did,  and  kissed  her  forehead. 
 Then  he  only  stood
there  for  a  moment  in  what  she  would  always  think  of  as  'his'  way  
of  standing,  perhaps  of
being:  bent  slightly  forward,  hands  plunged  deep  _  to  above  the  
wrist   —  in his pockets, the
bright  blue  eyes  in  his  mournful  basset-hound's  face  looking  down  at  
her  from  above.  In  later
years,  long  after  she  stopped  thinking  about  Derry  at  all,  she  would 
 see  a  man  sitting  on  the
bus  or  maybe  standing  on  a  comer  with  his  dinnerbucket  in  his  hand, 
 shapes,  oh  shapes  of
men,  sometimes  seen  as  day  closed  down,  sometimes  seen  across  
Watertower  Square  in  the
noonlight  of  a  clear  windy  autumn  day,  shapes  of  men,  rules  of  men, 
 desires  of  men:  or  Tom,
so    like  her  father  when  he  took  off  his  shirt  and  stood  slightly  
slumped  in  front  of  the
bathroom mirror to shave. Shapes of men.

'Sometimes I worry about you, Bev,' he said, but there was no trouble or anger 
in his voice
now. He touched her hair gently, smoothing it back from her forehead.

The  bathroom  is  full  of  blood,  Daddy!   she almost screamed then.  Didn't 
 you  see  it?  It's
everywhere! Cooking onto the light over the sink, even! Didn't you SEE it?

But  she  kept  her  silence  as  he  went  out  and  closed  the  door  behind 
 him,  filling  her  room

with  darkness.  She  was  still  awake,  still  staring  into  the  darkness,  
when  her  mother  came  in  at
eleven-thirty and the TV went off. She heard her parents go into their room and 
she heard the
bedsprings  creaking  steadily  as  they  did  their  sex-act  thing.  Beverly  
had  overheard  Greta
Bowie  telling  Sally  Mueller  that  the  sex-act  thing  hurt  like  fire  
and  no  nice  girl  ever  wanted
to do it ('At the end of it the man pees all over your bug,' Greta said, and 
Sally had cried: 'Oh
yuck, I'd  never  let a boy do that to me!'). If it hurt as badly as Greta 
said, then Bev's mother
kept  the  hurt  to  herself;  Bev  had  heard  her  mom  cry  out  once  or  
twice  in  a  low  voice,  but  it
hadn't sounded at all like a pain-cry.

The  slow  creak of the springs speeded up to a beat so rapid it was just short 
of frantic, and
then  stopped.  There  was  a  period  of  silence,  then  some  low  talk,  
then  the  sound  of  her
mother's  footsteps  as  she  went  into  the  bathroom.  Beverly  held  her  
breath,  waiting  for  her
mother to scream or not.

There was no scream  —  only the sound of water running into the basin. That 
was followed
by  some  low  splashing.  Then  the  water  ran  out  of  the  basin  with  
its  familiar  gurgling  sound.
Her  mother  was  brushing  her  teeth  now.  Moments  later  the  bedsprings  
in  her  parents'  room
creaked again as her mom got back into bed.

Five minutes or so after that her father began to snore.

A black fear stole over her heart and closed her throat. She found herself 
afraid to turn over
on   her   right   side   —   her  favorite  sleeping  position  —   because  
she  might  see  something
looking  in  the  window  at  her.  So  she  just  lay  on  her  back,  stiff  
as  a  poker,  looking  up  at  the
pressed-tin  ceiling.  Some  time  later  —  minutes  or  hours,  there  was  
no  way  of  telling  — she
fell       into a thin troubled sleep.

3

Beverly  always  woke  up  when  the  alarm  went  off  in  her  parents'  
bedroom.  You  had  to  be
fast,  because  the  alarm  no  more  than  got  started  before  her  father  
banged  it  off.  She  dressed
quickly  while  her  father  used  the  bathroom.  She  paused  (as  she  now  
almost  always  did)  to
look  at  her  chest  in  the  mirror,  trying  to  decide  if  her  breasts  
had  gotten  any  bigger  in  the
night.  She  had  started  getting  them  late  last  year.  There  had  been  
some  faint  pain  at  first,  but


that  was  gone  now.  They  were  extremely  small  —  not  much  more  than  
spring  apples,  really

— but they were there. It was true; childhood would end; she would be a woman.

She  smiled  at  her  reflection  and  put  a  hand  behind  her  head,  
pushing  her  hair  up  and
sticking   her   chest   out.   She   giggled   a   little   girl's   
unaffected   giggle   .   .   .   and   suddenly
remembered  the  blood  spewing  out  of  the  bathroom  drain  the  night  
before.  The  giggles
stopped abruptly.

She  looked  at  her  arm  and  saw  the  bruise  that  had  formed  there  in  
the night  — an ugly
stain between her shoulder and elbow, a stain with many discolored fingers.

The toilet went with a bang and a flush.

Moving  quickly,  not  wanting  him  to  be  mad  with  her  this  morning  
(not  wanting  him  to
even  notice  her  this  morning),  Beverly  pulled  on  a  pair  of  jeans  
and  her  Derry  High  School
sweatshirt.   And   then,   because   it   could   no   longer   be   put   
off,   she   left   her   room   for   the
bathroom.  Her  father  passed  her  in  the  living  room  on  his  way  back  
to  his  room  to  get
dressed.  His  blue  pyjama  suit  flapped  loosely  around  him.  He  grunted  
something  at  her  she
didn't understand.

'Okay, Daddy,' she replied nevertheless.

She  stood  in  front  of  the  closed  bathroom  door  for  a  moment,  trying 
 to  get  her  mind  ready
for  what  she  might  see  inside.  At  least  it's  daytime,  she  thought,  
and  that  brought  some
comfort. Not much, but some. She grasped the doorknob, turned it, and stepped 
inside.

4

That  was  a  busy  morning  for  Beverly.  She  got  her  father  his  
breakfast  —  orange  juice,
scrambled  eggs,  Al Marsh's version of toast (the bread hot but not really  
toasted at all). He sat
at the table, barricaded behind the News, and ate it all.

'Where's the bacon?'

'Gone, Daddy. We finished it yesterday.'
'Cook me a hamburger.'

'There's only a little bit of that left, t — '

The paper rustled, then dropped. His blue stare fell on her like weight.
'What did you say?' he asked softly.

'I said right away, Daddy.'

He looked at her a moment longer. Then the paper went back up and Beverly 
hurried to the
refrigerator to get the meat.

She  cooked  him  a  hamburger,  mashing  the  little  bit  of  ground  meat  
that  was  left  in  the

icebox  as  hard  as  she  could  to  make  it  look  bigger.  He  ate  it  
reading  the  Sports  page  and
Beverly  made  his  lunch  —  a   couple  of  peanut-butter-and-jelly  
sandwiches,  a  big  piece  of
cake  her  mother  had  brought  back  from  Green's  Farm  last  night,  a  
Thermos  of  hot  coffee
heavily laced with sugar.

'You  tell  your  mother  I  said  to  get  this  place  cleaned  up  today,'  
he  said,  taking  his

dinnerbucket.  'It  looks  like  a  damn  old  pigsty.  Sam  Hill!  I  spend  
the  whole  day  cleaning  up
messes over to the hospital. I don't need to come home to a pigsty. You mind 
me, Beverly.'

'Okay, Daddy. I will.'

He kissed her cheek, gave her a rough hug, and left. As she always did, Beverly 
went to the
window of her room and watched him walk down the street. And as she always did, 
she felt a
sneaking sense of relief when he turned the corner . . . and hated herself for 
it.

She did the dishes and then took the book she was reading out on the back steps 
for awhile.
Lars  Theramenius,  his  long  blonde  hair  glowing  with  its  own  serene  
inner  light,  toddled  over


from  the  next  building  to  show  Beverly  his  new  Tonka  truck  and  the  
new  scrapes  on  his
knees. Beverly exclaimed over both. Then her mother was calling her.

They  changed  both  beds,  washed  the  floors  and  waxed  the  kitchen  
linoleum.  Her  mother
did  the  bathroom  floor,  for  which  Beverly  was  profoundly  grateful.  
Elfrida  Marsh  was  a
small  woman  with  graying  hair  and  a  grim  look.  Her  lined  face  told  
the  world  that  she  had
been  around  for  awhile  and  intended  to  stay  around  awhile  longer  .  
.  .  It  also  told  the  world
that none of it had been easy and she did not look for an early change in that 
state of affairs.

'Will  you  do  the  living-room  windows,  Bevvie?'  she  asked,  coming  back 
 into  the  kitchen.
She  had  changed  into  her  waitress  uniform.  'I  have  to  go  up  to  
Saint  Joe's  in  Bangor  to  see
Cheryl Tarrent. She broke her leg last night.'

'Yeah, I'll  do  them,'  Beverly  said.  'What  happened  to  Mrs  Tarrent?  
Did  she  fall  down  or
something?' Cheryl Tarrent was a woman Elfrida worked with at the restaurant.

'She  and  that  no-good  she's  married  to  were  in  a  car  wreck,'  
Beverly's  mother  said  grimly.
'He  was  drinking.  You  want  to  thank  God  in  your  prayers  every  night 
 that  your  father  doesn't
drink, Bevvie.'

'I do,' Beverly said. She did.

'She's going to lose her job, I guess, and he can't hold one.' Now tones of 
grim horror crept
into Elfrida's voice. 'They'll have to go on the county, I guess.'

It  was  the  worst  thing  Elfrida  Marsh  could  think  of.  Losing  a  child 
 or  finding  out  you  had

cancer didn't hold a candle to it. You could be poor; you could spend your life 
doing what she
called  'scratchin.'  But  at  the  bottom  of  everything,  below  even  the  
gutter,  was  a  time  when
you  might  have  to  go  on the county  and  drink  the  worksweat  from  the  
brows  of  others  as  a
gift. This, she knew, was the prospect that now faced Cheryl Tarrent.

'Once  you  got  the  win dows  washed  and  take  the  trash  out,  you  can  
go  and  play  awhile,  if
you  want.  It's  your  father's  bowling  night  so  you  won't  have  to  fix 
 his  supper,  but  I  want  you
in before dark. You know why.'

'Okay, Mom.'

'My  God,  you're  growing  up  fast,'  Elfrida   said.  She  looked  for  a  
moment  at  the  nubs  in
Beverly's  sweatshirt.  Her  glance  was  loving  but  pitiless.  'I  don't  
know  what  I'm  going  to  do
around here once you're married and have a place of your own.'

'I'll  be  around  for  just  about  ever,'  Beverly  said, smiling. .      Her 
mother hugged her briefly
and  kissed  the  corner  of  her  mouth  with  her  warm  dry  lips.  'I  know 
 better,'  she  said.  'But  I
love you, Bevvie.'

'I love you too, Momma.'

'You  make  sure  there  aren't  any  streaks  on  those  windows  when  you're 
 done,'  she  said,
picking  up  her  purse  and  going  to  the  door.  'If  there  are,  you'll  
catch  the  blue  devil  from  your
father.'

'I'll be careful.' As her mother opened the door to go out, Beverly asked in a 
tone she hoped
was casual: 'Did you see anything funny in the bathroom, Mom?'

Elfrida looked back at her, frowning a little. 'Funny?'

'Well  .  .  .  I  saw  a  spider  in  there  last  night.  It  crawled  out  
of  the  drain.  Didn't  Daddy  tell
you?'

'Did you get your dad angry at you last night, Bevvie?'

'No!  Huh-uh!  I  told  him  a  spider  crawled  out  of  the  drain  and  
scared  me  and  he  said
sometimes  they  used  to  find  drowned  rats  in  the  toilets  at  the  old  
high  school.  Because  of  the
drains. He didn't tell you about the spider I saw?'

'No.'

'Oh. Well, it doesn't matter. I just wondered if you saw it.'


'I  didn't  see  any  spider.  I  wish  we  could  afford  a  little  new  
linoleum  for  that  bathroom
floor.'  She  glanced  at  the  sky,  which  was  blue  and  cloudless.  'They  
say  if  you  kill  a  spider,  it
brings rain. You didn't kill it, did you?'

'No,' Beverly said. 'I didn't kill it.'

Her  mother  looked  back  at  her,  her  lips  pressed  together  so  tightly  
they  almost  weren't
there. 'You sure your dad wasn't angry with you last night?'

'Bevvie, does he ever touch you?'

'What?'  Beverly  looked  at  her  mother,  totally  perplexed.  God,  her  
father  touched  her  every

day. 'I don't get what you — '

'Never   mind,'   Elfrida   said   shortly.   'Don't   forget   the   trash.   
And   if   those  windows  are
streaked, you won't need your father to give you blue devil.'

'I won't

(does he ever touch you)

'forget.'

'And be in before dark.'
'I will.'

(does he)

(worry an awful lot)

Elfrida  left.  Beverly  went  into  her  room  again  and  watched  her  
around  the  corner  and out
of  view,  as  she  had  her  father.  Then,  when  she  was  sure  her  mother 
 was  well  on  her  way  to
the  bus  stop,  Beverly  got  the  floorbucket,  the  Windex,  and  some  rags 
 from  under  the  sink.
She  went  into  the  living  room  and  began  on  the  windows.  The  
apartment seemed too quiet.
Each  time  the  floor  creaked  or  a  door  slammed,  she  jumped  a  little. 
 When  the  Boltons'  toilet
flushed above her, she uttered a gasp that was nearly a scream.

And she kept looking toward the closed bathroom door.

At  last  she  walked  down  there  and  drew  it  open  again  and  looked  
inside.  Her  mother  had
cleaned  in  here  this  morning,  and  most  of  the  blood  which  had  
pooled  under  the  sink  was
gone.  So  was  the  blood  on  the  sink's  rim.  But  there  were  still  
maroon  streaks  drying  in  the
sink itself, spots and splashes of it on the mirror and on the wallpaper.

Beverly  looked  at  her  pale  reflection  and  realized  with  sudden,  
superstitious  dread  that  the
blood  on  the  mirror  made  it  seem  as  if her  face was bleeding. She 
thought again:  What am I
going to do about this? Have I gone crazy? Am I imagining it?

The drain suddenly gave a burping chuckle.

Beverly   screamed   and   slammed   the   door   and   five   minutes   later  
 her   hands   were   still
trembling  so  badly  that  she  almost  dropped  the  bottle  of  Windex  as  
she  washed  the  windows
in the living room.

5

It  was  around  three  o'clock  that  afternoon,  the  apartment  locked  up  
and  the  extra  key  tucked
snugly  away  in  the  pocket  of  her  jeans,  when  Beverly  Marsh  happened  
to  turn  up  Richard's
Alley,  a  narrow  walk-through  which  connected  Main  and  Center  Streets,  
and  came  upon  Ben
Hanscom, Eddie Kaspbrak, and a boy named Bradley Donovan pitching pennies.

'Hi, Bev!' Eddie said. 'You get any nightmares from those movies?'

'Nope,' Beverly said, squatting down to watch the game. 'How'd you know about 
that?'
'Haystack  told  me,'  Eddie  said,  jerking  a  thumb  at  Ben,  who  was  
blushing  wildly  for  no

good reason Beverly could see.

'What  movieth?'  Bradley  asked,  and  now  Beverly  recognized  him:  he  had 
 come  down  to
the  Barrens  a  week  ago  with  Bill  Denbrough.  They  had  a  speech  class 
 together  in  Bangor.


Beverly  more  or  less  dismissed  him  from  her  mind.  If  asked,  she  
might  have  said  he  seemed
somehow less important than Ben and Eddie — less there.

'Couple   of   creature   features,'   she   said   to   him,   and   
duck-walked   closer   until   she   was
between Ben and Eddie. 'You pitchin?'

'Yes,' Ben said. He looked at her quickly, then looked away.
'Who's winning?'

'Eddie,' Ben said. 'Eddie's real good.'

She  looked  at  Eddie,  who  polished  his  nails  solemnly  on  the  front  
of  his  shirt  and  then
giggled.

'Can I play?'

'Okay with me,' Eddie said. 'You got pence?'
She felt in her pocket and brought out three.

'Jeez, how do you dare to go out of the house with such a wad?' Eddie asked. 
'I'd be scared.'
Ben and Bradley Donovan laughed.

'Girls can be brave, too,' Beverly said gravely, and a moment later they were 
all laughing.

Bradley  pitched  first,  then  Ben,  then  Beverly.  Because  he  was  
winning,  Eddie  had lasties.
They  tossed  the  pennies  toward  the  back  wall  of  the  Center  Street  
Drug  Store.  Sometimes
they  landed  short,  sometimes  they  struck  and  bounced  back.  At  the  
end  of  each  round  the
shooter  with  the  penny  closest  to  the  wall  collected  all  four  
pennies.  Five  minutes  later,
Beverly had twenty-four cents. She had lost only a single round.

'Girlth  cheat!'  Bradley  said,  disgusted,  and  got  up  to  go.  His  good  
humor  was  gone,  and  he
looked at Beverly with both anger and humiliation. 'Girlth thouldn't be allowed 
to — '

Ben    bounced    to    his    feet.    It    was    awesome    to    watch    
Ben    Hanscom    bounce.

Take that back!'

Bradley looked at Ben, his mouth open.'What?'
Take it back! She didn't cheat!'

Bradley  looked  from  Ben  to  Eddie  to  Beverly,  who  was  still  on  her 
knees. Then he looked
back at Ben again. 'You want a fat lip to math the reth of you, athhole?'

'Sure,'  Ben  said,  and  a  grin  suddenly  crossed  his  face.  Something  in 
 its  quality  caused

Bradley  to  take  a  surprised,  uneasy  step  backward.  Perhaps  what  he 
saw in that grin was the
simple  fact  that  after  tangling  with  Henry  Bowers  and  coming  out  
ahead  not  once  but  twice,
Ben Hanscom was not about to be terrorized by skinny old Bradley Donovan (who 
had warts
all over his hands as well as that cataclysmic lisp).

'Yeah,  and  then  you  all  gang  up  on  me,'  Bradley  said,  taking  
another  step  backward.  His
voice  had  picked  up  an  uncertain  waver,  and  tears  stood  out  in  his  
eyes.  'All  a  bunth  of
cheaterth!'

'You just take back what you said about her,' Ben said.

'Never  mind,  Ben,'  Beverly  said.  She  held  out  a  handful  of  coppers  
to  Bradley.  Take  what's
yours. I wasn't playing for keepsies anyway.'

Tears   of   humiliation   spilled   over   Bradley's   lower   lashes.   He   
struck   the   pennies   from
Beverly's hand and ran  for  the  Center  Street  end  of  Richard's  Alley.  
The  others  stood  looking
at  him,  open-mouthed.  With  safety  within  reach,  Bradley  turned  around  
and  shouted:  'You're
jutht a little bith, that'th all! Cheater! Cheater! Your mother'th a whorel'

Beverly  gasped.  Ben  ran  up  the  alley  toward  Bradley  and  succeeded  in 
 doing  no  more  than
tripping  over  an  empty  crate  and  falling  down.  Bradley  was  gone,  and 
 Ben  knew  better  than
to  believe  he  could  ever  catch  him.  He  turned  toward  Beverly  instead 
 to  see  if  she  was  all
right. That word had shocked him as much as it had her.

She saw the concern in his face. She opened her mouth to say she was okay, not 
to worry,
sticks-and-stones-will-break-my-bones-but-names-will-never-hurt-me    .    .    
.    and    that    odd
question her mother had asked


(does he ever touch you)

recurred.   Odd   question,   yes   —   simple   yet   nonsensical,   full   of 
  somehow   ominous
undertones,  murky  as  old  coffee.  Instead  of  saying  that  names  would  
never  hurt  her,  she  burst
into tears.

Eddie  looked  at  her  uncomfortably, took his aspirator from his pants 
pocket, and sucked on
it.  Then  he  bent  down  and  began  picking  up  the  scattered  pennies.  
There  was  a  fussy,  careful
expression on his face as he did this.

Ben  moved  toward  her  instinctively,  wanting  to  hug  and  give  comfort,  
and  then  stopped.

She was too pretty. In the face of that prettiness he felt helpless.

'Cheer  up,'  he  said,  knowing  it  must  sound  idiotic  but  unable  to  
think  of  anything  more
useful.  He  touched  her  shoulders  lightly  (she  had  put  her  hands over 
her face to hide her wet
eyes  and  blotchy  cheeks)  and  then  took  them  away  as  if  she  were  
too  hot  to  touch.  He  was
now blushing so hard he looked apoplectic. 'Cheer up, Beverly.'

She  lowered  her  hands  and  cried  out  in  a  shrill,  furious  voice:  'My 
mother  is  not  a  whore!

She . . . she's a waitress!'

This  was  greeted  by  absolute  silence.  Ben  stared  at  her  with  his  
lower  jaw  sprung  ajar.
Eddie  looked  up  at  her  from  the  cobbled  surface  of  the  alley,  his  
hands  full  of  pennies.  And
suddenly all three of them were laughing hysterically.

'A  waitress!'  Eddie  cackled.  He  had  only  the  faintest  idea  of  what  
a  whore  was,  but
something about this comparison struck him as delicious just the same. 'Is that 
what she is!'

'Yes! Yes, she is!' Beverly gasped, laughing and crying at the same time.

Ben  was  laughing  so  hard  he  couldn't  stand  up.  He  sat  heavily  on  a 
 trashcan.  His  bulk
drove  the  lid  into  the  can  and  spilled  him  into  the  alley  on  his  
side.  Eddie  pointed  at  him  and
howled with laughter. Beverly helped him to his feet.

A  window  went  up  above  them  and  a  woman  yelled,  'You  kids  get  out  
of  there!  There's
people that have to work the night shift, you know! Get lost!'

Without  thinking,  the  three  of  them  linked  hands,  Beverly  in  the  
middle,  and ran  for  Center
Street. They were still laughing.

6

They  pooled  their  money  and  discovered  they  had  forty  cents,  enough  
for  two  ice-cream
frappes  from  the  drugstore.  Because  old  Mr  Keene  was  a  grouch  and  
wouldn't  let  kids  under
twelve  eat  their  stuff  at the  soda  fountain  (he  claimed  the  pinball  
machines  in  the  back  room
might  corrupt  them),  they  took  the  frappes  in  two  huge  waxed  
containers  up  to  Bassey  Park
and sat on the grass to drink them. Ben had coffee, Eddie strawberry. Beverly 
sat between the
two boys with a straw, sampling each in turn like a bee at flowers. She felt 
okay again for the
first time since the drain had coughed up its gout of blood the night before  — 
washed out and
emotionally exhausted, but okay, at peace with herself. For the time being, 
anyway.

'I  just  don't  get  what  was  wrong  with  Bradley,'  Eddie  said  at  last  
 —  it  had  the  tone  of
awkward apology. 'He never acted like that before.'

'You stood up for me,' Beverly said, and suddenly kissed Ben on one cheek. 
'Thank you.'

Ben  went  scarlet  again.  'You  weren't  cheating,'  he  mumbled,  and  
abruptly  gulped  down
half of his coffee frappe in three monster swallows. This was followed by a 
burp as loud as a
shotgun blast.

'Get   any   on   you,   Daddy-o?'  Eddie  asked,  and  Beverly  laughed  
helplessly,  holding  her
stomach.

'No more,' she giggled. 'My stomach hurts. Please, no more.'


Ben  was  smiling.  That  night,  before  sleep,  he  would  play  the  moment  
when  she  had  kissed
him over and over again in his mind.

'Are you really okay now?' he asked.

She  nodded.  'It  wasn't   him.  It  really  wasn't  even  what  he  said  
about  my  mother.  It  was
something  that  happened  last  night.'  She  hesitated,  looking  from  Ben  
to  Eddie  and  back  to
Ben  again.  'I  .  .  .  I  have  to  tell  somebody.  Or  show  somebody. Or 
something. I guess I cried
because I've been scared I'm going looneytunes.'

'What are you talking about, looneytunes?' a new voice asked.

It  was  Stanley  Uris.  As  always  he  looked  small,  slim,  and  
preternaturally  neat  — much too
neat  for  a  kid  who  was  just  barely  eleven.  In  his  white  shirt,  
neatly  tucked  into  his  fresh  jeans
all  the  way  around,  his  hair  combed,  the  toes  of  his  high-top Keds 
spotlessly clean, he looked
instead like the world's smallest adult. Then he smiled, and the illusion was 
broken.

She won't say whatever she was going to say,  Eddie thought, because he wasn't 
there when
Bradley called her mother that name.

But  after  a  moment's  hesitation,  Beverly  did  tell.  Because  somehow  
Stanley  was  different
from Bradley — he was there in a way Bradley had not been.

Stanley's  one  of  us,  Beverly  thought,  and  wondered  why  that  should  
cause  her  arms  to
suddenly  break  out  in  bumps.  I'm  not  doing  any  of  them  any  favors  
by  telling,  she thought.
Not them, and not me, neither.

But  it  was  too  late.  She  was  already  speaking.  Stan  sat  down  with  
them,  his  face  still  and
grave.  Eddie  offered  him  the  last  of  the  strawberry  frappe  and  Stan  
only  shook  his  head,  his
eyes never leaving Beverly's face. None of the boys spoke.

She   told   them   about   the   voices.   About   recognizing   Ronnie   
Grogan's   voice.   She   knew
Ronnie  was  dead,  but  it  was  her  voice  all  the  same.  She  told  them  
about  the  blood,  and  how
her father had not seen it or felt it, and how her mother had not seen it this 
morning.

When   she    finished,   she   looked   around   at   their   faces,   afraid  
 of   what   she   might
see there . . . but she saw no disbelief. Terror, but no disbelief.

Finally Ben said, 'Let's go look.'

7

They went in by the back door, not just because that was the lock Bev's key 
fitted but because
she  said  her  father  would  kill  her  if  Mrs  Bolton  saw  her  going  
into  the  apartment  with  three
boys while her folks were gone.

'Why?' Eddie asked.

'You wouldn't understand, numbnuts,' Stan said. 'Just be quiet.'

Eddie  started  to  reply,  looked  again  at  Stan's  white,  strained  face  
and  decided  to  keep  his
mouth shut.

The  door  gave  on  the  kitchen,  which  was  full  of  late-afternoon  sun  
and  summer  silence.
The  breakfast  dishes  sparkled  in  the  drainer.  The  four  of  them  stood 
 by  the  kitchen  table,
bunched up, and when a door slammed upstairs, they all jumped and then laughed 
nervously.

'Where is it?' Ben asked. He was whispering.

Her  heart  thudding  in  her  temples,  Beverly  led  them  down  the  little  
hall  with  her  parents'
bedroom  on  one  side  and  the  closed  bathroom  door  at  the  end.  She  
pulled  it  open,  stepped
quickly  inside,  and  pulled  the  chain  over  the  sink.  Then  she  stepped 
 back  between  Ben  and
Eddie  again.  The  blood  had  dried  to  maroon  smears  on  the  mirror  and 
 the  basin  and  the
wallpaper. She looked at the blood because it was suddenly easier to look at 
that than at them.

In a small voice she could hardly recognize as her own, she asked: 'Do you see 
it? Do  any

of you see it? Is it there?'


Ben  stepped  forward,  and  she  was  again  struck  by  how  delicately  he  
moved  for  such  a  fat
boy.  He  touched  one  of  the  smears  of  blood;  then  a  second;  then  a  
long  drip  on  the  mirror.
'Here. Here. Here.' His voice was flat and authoritative.

'Jeepers! It looks like somebody killed a pig in here,' Stan said, softly awed.

'It  all  came  out  of  the  drain?'  Eddie  asked.  The  sight  of  the  
blood  made  him  feel ill. His
breath was shortening. He clutched at his aspirator.

Beverly  had  to  struggle  to  keep  from  bursting  into  fresh  tears.  She  
didn't  want  to  do  that;
she  was  afraid  if  she  did  they  would  dismiss  her  as  just  another  
girl.  But  she  had  to  clutch  for
the   doorknob   as   relief   washed   through   her   in   a   wave   of   
frightening   strength.   Until   that
moment  she  hadn't  realized  how  sure  she  was  that  she  was  going  
crazy,  having  hallucinations,
something.

'And your mom and dad never saw it,' Ben marvelled. He touched a splotch of 
blood which
had  dried  on  the  basin  and  then  pulled  his  hand  away  and  wiped  it  
on  the  tail  of  his  shirt.
'Jeepers-creepers.

'I  don't  know  how  I  can  ever  come  in  here  again,'  Beverly  said.  
'Not  to  wash  up  or  brush
my teeth or . . . you know.'

'Well, why don't we clean the place up?' Stanley asked suddenly.
Beverly looked at him. 'Clean it?'

'Sure.  Maybe  we  couldn't  get  all  of  it  off  the  wallpaper  —  it looks 
sorta, you know, on its

last legs — but we could get the rest. Haven't you got some rags?'

'Under  the  kitchen  sink,'  Beverly  said.  'But  my  mom'll  wonder  where  
they  went  if  we  use
them.'

'I've  got  fifty  cents,'  Stan  said  quietly.  His  eyes  never  left  the  
blood  that  had  spattered  the
area  of  the  bathroom  around  the  wash-basin. 'We'll clean up as good as we 
can, then take the
rags  down  to  that  coin-op  laundry  place  back  the  way  we  came.  We'll 
 wash  them  and  dry
them and they'll all be back under the sink before your folks get home.'

'My  mother  says  you  can't  get  blood  out  of  cloth,'  Eddie  objected.  
'She  says  it  sets  in,  or
something.'

Ben    uttered    a    hysterical    little    giggle.    'Doesn't    matter    
if    it    comes    out    of    the

rags or not,' he said. 'They can't see it.'

No one had to ask him who he meant by 'they.'
'All right,' Beverly said. 'Let's try it.'

8

For  the  next  half  hour,  the  four  of  them  cleaned  like  grim  elves,  
and  as  the  blood  disappeared
from  the  walls  and  the  mirror  and  the  porcelain  basin,  Beverly  felt  
her  heart  grow  lighter  and
lighter.  Ben  and  Eddie  did  the  sink  and  mirror  while  she  scrubbed  
the  floor.  Stan  worked  on
the  wallpaper  with  studious  care,  using  a  rag  that  was  almost  dry.  
In the end, they got almost
all  of  it.  Ben  finished  by  removing  the  light-bulb  over  the  sink  
and  replacing  it  with  one  from
the  box  of  bulbs  in  the  pantry.  There  were  plenty:  Elfrida  Marsh  
had  bought  a  two-year
supply from the Derry Lions during their annuallight-bulb sale the fall before.

They  used  Elfrida's  floorbucket,  her  Ajax,  and  plenty  of  hot  water.  
They  dumped  the  water
frequently because none of them liked to have their hands in it once it had 
turned pink.

At  last  Stanley  backed  away,  looked at the bathroom with the critical eye 
of a boy in whom

neatness  and  order  are  not  simply  ingrained  but  actually  innate,  and  
told  them:  'It's  the  best
we can do, I think.'

There  were  still  faint  traces  of  blood  on  the  wallpaper  to  the  left 
 of  the  sink,  where  the
paper was so thin and ragged that Stanley had dared do no more than blot it 
gently. Yet even


here  the  blood  had  been  sapped  of  its  former  ominous  strength;  it  
was  little  more  than  a
meaningless pastel smear.

Thank  you,'  Beverly  said  to  all  of  them.  She  could  not  remember  
ever  having  meant  thanks
so deeply. 'Thank you all.'

'It's okay,' Ben mumbled. He was of course blushing again.
'Sure,' Eddie agreed.

'Let's  get  these  rags  done,'  Stanley  said.  His  face  was  set,  almost  
stern.  And  later  Beverly
would  think  that  perhaps  only  Stan  realized  that  they  had  taken  
another  step  toward  some
unthinkable confrontation.

9

They  measured  out  a  cup  of  Mrs  Marsh's  Tide  and  put  it  in  an  
empty  mayonnaise  jar.  Bev
found  a  paper  shopping  bag  to  put  the bloody rags in, and the four of 
them went down to the
Kleen-Kloze  Washateria  on  the  corner  of  Main  and  Cony  Streets.  Two  
blocks  farther  up  they
could       see the Canal gleaming a bright blue in the afternoon sun.

The  Kleen-Kloze  was  empty  except  for  a  woman  in  a  white  nurse's  
uniform  who  was
waiting  for  her  dryer  to  stop.  She  glanced  at  the  four  kids  
distrustfully  and  then  went  back  to
her paperback of Peyton Place.

'Cold water,' Ben said in a low voice. 'My mom says you gotta wash blood in 
cold water.'

They  dumped  the  rags  into  the  washer  while  Stan  changed  his  two  
quarters  for  four  dimes
and  two  nickels.  He  came  back  and  watched  as  Bev  dumped  the  Tide  
over  the  rags  and
swung  the  washer's  door  closed.  Then  he  plugged  two  dimes  into  the  
coin-op  slot and twisted
the start knob.

Beverly  had  chipped  in  most  of  the  pennies  she  had  won  at  pitch  
for  the  frappes,  but  she
found  four  survivors  deep  down  in  the  lefthand  pocket  of  her  jeans.  
She  fished  them  out  and
offered  them  to  Stan,  who  looked  pained.  'Jeez,'  he  said,  'I  take  a 
 girl  on  a  laundry  date  and
right away she wants to go Dutch.'

Beverly laughed a little. 'You sure?'

'I'm  sure,'  Stan  said  in  his  dry  way.  'I  mean,  it's  really  breaking 
 my  heart  to  give  up  those
four pence, Beverly, but I'm sure.'

The  four  of  them  went  over  to  the  line  of  plastic  contour  chairs  
against  the  Washateria's
cinderblock  wall  and  sat  there,  not  talking.  The  Maytag  with  the  
rags  in  it  chugged  and
sloshed.  Fans  of  suds  slobbered  against  the  thick  glass  of  its  round 
porthole. At first the suds
were  reddish.  Looking  at  them  made  Bev  feel  a  little  sick,  but  she  
found  it  was  hard  to  look
away.  The  bloody  foam  had  a  gruesome  sort  of  fascination.  The  lady  
in  the  nurse's  uniform
glanced  at  them  more  and  more  often  over  the  top  of  her  book.  She  
had  perhaps  been  afraid
they  would  be  rowdy;  now  their  very  silence  seemed  to  unnerve  her.  
When  her  dryer  stopped
she  took  her  clothes  out,  folded  them,  put  them  into  a  blue  plastic 
 laundry-bag and left, giving
them one last puzzled look as she went out the door.

As soon as she was gone, Ben said abruptly, almost harshly: 'You're not alone.'
'What?' Beverly asked.

'You're not alone,' Ben repeated. 'You see — '

He stopped and looked at Eddie, who nodded. He looked at Stan, who looked 
unhappy . . .
but who, after a moment, shrugged and also nodded.

'What  in  the  world  are  you  talking  about?'  Beverly  asked.  She  was  
tired  of  people  saying
inexplicable  things  to  her  today.  She  gripped  Ben's  lower  arm.  'If  
you  know  something about
this, tell me!'

'Do you want to do it?' Ben asked Eddie.


Eddie  shook  his  head.  He  took  his  aspirator  out  of  his  pocket  and  
sucked  in  on  it  with  a
monstrous gasp.

Speaking  slowly,  picking  his  words,  Ben  told  Beverly  how  he  had  
happened  to  meet  Bill
Denbrough and Eddie Kaspbrak in the Barrens on the day school let out  — that 
was almost a
week ago, as hard as that was to believe. He told her about how they had built 
the dam in the
Barrens  the  following  day.  He  told  Bill's  story  of  how  the  school  
photograph  of  his  dead
brother  had  turned  its  head  and  winked.  He  told  his  own  story  of  
the  mummy  who  had
walked  on  the  icy  Canal  in  the  dead  heart  of  winter  with  balloons  
that  floated  against  the
wind.  Beverly  listened  to  all  this  with  growing  horror.  She  could  
feel  her  eyes  widening,  her
hands and feet growing cold.

Ben  stopped  and  looked  at  Eddie.  Eddie  took  another  wheezing  pull  on 
 his  aspirator  and
then  told  the  story  of  the  leper  again,  speaking  as  rapidly  as  Ben  
had  slowly,  his  words
tumbling  over  one  another  in  their  urgency  to  escape  and  be  gone.  
He  finished  with  a  sucking
little half-sob, but this time he didn't cry.

'And you?' she asked, looking at Stan Uris.
'I — '

There  was  sudden  silence,  making  them  all  start  the  way  a  sudden  
explosion  might  have
done.

'The wash is done,' Stan said.

They  watched  him  get  up  —  small,  economical,  graceful  —  and  open  
the  washer.  He
pulled out the rags, which were stuck together in a clump, and examined them.

There's  a  little  stain  left,'  he  said,  'but  it's  not  too  bad.  Looks 
 like  it  could  be  cranberry

juice.'

He  showed  them,  and  they  all  nodded  gravely,  as  if  over  important  
documents. Beverly felt
a  relief  that  was  similar  to  the  relief  she  had  felt  when  the  
bathroom  was  clean  again.  She
could  stand  the  faded  pastel  smear  on  the  peeling wallpaper in there, 
and she could stand the
faint  reddish  stain  on  her  mother's  cleaning  rags.  They  had  done  
something  about  it,  that
seemed  to  be  the  important  thing.  Maybe  it  hadn't  worked  completely,  
but  she  discovered  it
had  worked  well  enough  to  give  her  heart  peace,  and  brother,  that  
was  good  enough  for  Al
Marsh's daughter Beverly.

Stan  tossed  them  into  one  of  the  barrel-shaped  dryers  and  put  in  
two  nickels.  The  dryer
started to turn, and Stan came back and took his seat between Eddie and Ben.

For  a  moment  the  four  of  them  sat  silent  again,  watching  the  rags  
turn  and  fall,  turn  and
fall.  The  drone  of  the  gas-fired  dryer  was  soothing,  almost  
soporific.  A  woman  passed  by  the
chocked-open door, wheeling a cart of groceries. She glanced in at them and 
passed on.

'I did see something,' Stan said suddenly. 'I didn't want to talk about it, 
because I wanted to
think  it  was  a  dream  or  something.  Maybe  even  a  fit,  like  that  
Stavier  kid  has. Any you guys
know that kid?'

Ben and Bev shook their heads. Eddie said, The kid who's got epilepsy?'

'Yeah,  right.  That's  how  bad  it  was.  I  would  have  rather  thought  I  
had  something  like  that
than that I saw something . . . really real.'

'What was it?' Bev asked, but she wasn't sure she really wanted to know. This 
was not like

listening   to   ghost-stories   around   a   camp-fire   while   you   ate   
wieners   in   toasted   buns   and
cooked  marshmallows  over  the  flames  until  they  were  black  and  
crinkly.  Here  they sat in this
stifling   laundromat   and   she   could   see   great   big   dust   kitties  
 under   the   washing   machines
(ghost-turds,  her  father  called  them),  she  could  see  dust-motes  
dancing  in  the  hot  shafts  of
sunlight   which   fell   through   the   laundromat's   dirty   plate-glass   
window,   she   could   see   old
magazines  with  their  covers  torn  off.  These  were  all  normal  things.  
Nice  and  normal  and
boring.  But  she  was  scared.  Terribly  scared.  Because,  she  sensed,  
none  of  these  things  were
made-up  storks,  made-up  monsters:  Ben's  mummy,  Eddie's  leper  .  .  .  
either  or  both  of  them


might  be  out  tonight  when  the  sun  went  down.  Or  Bill  Denbrough's  
brother,  one-armed and
implacable, cruising through the black drains under the city with silver coins 
for eyes.

Yet, when Stan did not answer immediately, she asked again: 'What was it?'

Speaking carefully, Stan said: 'I was over in that little park where the 
Standpipe is — '

'Oh  God,  I  don't  like  that  place,'  Eddie  said  dolefully.  'If  there's 
 a  haunted  house  in  Derry,
that's it.'

'What? Stan said sharply. 'What did you say?'

'Don't you  know  about  that  place?'  Eddie  asked.  'My  mom  wouldn't  let  
me  go  near  there
even before the kids started getting killed. She . . . she takes real good care 
of me.' He offered
them  an  uneasy  grin  and  held  his  aspirator  tighter  in  his  lap.  'You 
 see,  some  kids  have  been
drowned in there. Three or four. They — Stan? Stan, are you all right?'

Stan  Uris's  face  had  gone  a  leaden  gray.  His  mouth  worked  
soundlessly.  His  eyes  rolled  up
until  the  others  could  only  see  the  bottommost  curves  of  his  irises. 
 One  hand  clutched  weakly
at empty air and then fell against his thigh.

Eddie did the only thing he could think of. He leaned over, put one thin arm 
around Stan's
slumping shoulders, jammed his aspirator into Stan's mouth, and triggered off a 
big blast.

Stan  began  to  cough  and  choke  and  gag.  He  sat  up  straight,  his  
eyes  back  in  focus  again.
He  coughed  into  his  cupped  hands.  At  last  he  uttered  a  huge,  
burping  gasp  and  slumped  back
against his chair.

'What was that?' he managed at last.

'My asthma medicine,' Eddie said apologetically.
'God, it tastes like dead dogshit.'

They  all  laughed  at  this,  but  it  was  nervous  laughter.  The  others  
were  looking  nervously  at
Stan. Thin color now burned in his cheeks.

'It's pretty bad, all right,' Eddie said with some pride.

'Yeah,  but  is  it  kosher?'  Stan  said,  and  they  all  laughed  again,  
although  none  of  them
(including Stan) really knew what 'kosher' meant.

Stan  stopped  laughing  first  and  looked  at  Eddie  intently.  'Tell  me  
what  you  know  about  the
Standpipe,' he said.

Eddie  started,  but  both  Ben  and  Beverly  also  contributed.  The  Derry  
Standpipe  stood  on
Kansas  Street,  about  a  mile  and  a  half  west  of  downtown,  near  the  
southern  edge  of  the
Barrens.  At  one  time,  near  the  end  of  the  previous  century,  it  had  
supplied  all  of  Derry's
water,   holding   one   and   three-quarter  million  gallons.  Because  the  
circular  open-air  gallery
just  below  the  Standpipe's  roof  offered  a  spectacular  view  of  the  
town  and   the surrounding
countryside,  it  had  been  a  popular  place  until  1930  or  so.  Families  
would  come  out  to  tiny
Memorial  Park  on  a  Saturday  or  Sunday  forenoon  when  the  weather  was  
fine,  climb  the  one
hundred  and  sixty  stairs  inside  the  Standpipe  to  the  gallery,  and  
take  in  the  view.  More  often
than not they spread and ate a picnic lunch while they did so.

The  stairs  were  between  the  Standpipe's  outside,  which  was  shingled  a 
 blinding  white,  and
its  inner  sleeve,  a  great  stainless-steel  cylinder  standing  a  hundred  
and  six  feet  high.  These
stairs wound to the top in a narrow spiral.

Just  below  the  gallery  level,  a  thick  wooden  door  in  the  Standpipe's 
 inner  jacket  gave  on  a

platform  over  the  water  itself  —  a  black,  gently  lapping  tarn  lit  
by  naked  magnesium  bulbs
screwed  into  reflective  tin  hoods.  The  water  was  exactly  one  hundred  
feet  deep  when  the
supply was all the way up.

'Where did the water come from?' Ben asked.

Bev, Eddie, and Stan looked at each other. None of them knew.
'Well, what about the kids that drowned, then?'

They  were  only  a  bit  clearer  on  that.  It  seemed  that  in  those  days 
 ('olden  days,'  Ben  called

them  solemnly,  as  he  took  up  this  part  of  the  tale)  the  door  
leading  to  the  platform  over  the


water had always been left unlocked. One night a couple of kids . . . or maybe 
just one . . . or
as  many  as  three  .  .  .  had  found  the  ground-level door also unlocked. 
They had gone up on a
dare.  They  found  their  way  out  onto  the  platform  over  the  water  
instead  of  onto  the  gallery  by
mistake.  In  the  darkness,  they  had  fallen  over  the  edge  before  they  
quite  knew  where  they
were.

'I  heard  it  from  this  kid  Vic  Crumly  who  said  he  heard  it  from  
his  dad,'  Beverly  said,  'so
maybe  it's  true.  Vie  said  his  dad  said  that  once  they  fell  into  
the  water  they  were  as  good  as
dead because there was nothing to hold onto. The platform was just out of 
reach. He said they
paddled  around  in  there,  yelling  for  help,  all  night  long,  probably.  
Only  no  one  heard  them
and they just got tireder and tireder until — '

She  trailed  off,  feeling  the  horror  of  it  sink  into  her.  She  could  
see  those  boys  in  her  mind's
eye,   real   or   made-up,   paddling   around   like   drenched   puppies.   
Going   under,   coming   up
sputtering.  Splashing  more  and  swimming  less  as  panic  set  in.  Soggy  
sneakers treading water.
Fingers  scrabbling  uselessly  for  any  kind  of  purchase  on  the  smooth  
steel  walls  of  the  sleeve.
She  could  taste  the  water  they  must  have  swallowed.  She  could  hear  
the  flat,  echoing  quality
of  their  cries.  How  long?  Fifteen  minutes?  Half  an  hour?  How  long  
before  the  cries  had
ceased  and  they  had  simply  floated  face-down,  strange  fish  for  the  
caretaker  to  find  the  next
morning?

'God,' Stan said dryly.

'I  heard  there  was  a  woman  who  lost  her  baby,  too,'  Eddie  said  
suddenly.  That  was when
they closed the place for good. At least, that's what I heard. They did use to 
let people go up, I
know that. But then one time there was this lady and her baby. I don't know how 
old the baby
was.  But  this  platform,  it's  supposed  to  go  right  out  over the water. 
And the lady went to the
railing  and  she  was,  you  know,  holding  the  baby,  and  either  she  
dropped  it  or  maybe  it  just
wriggled.  I  heard  this  guy  tried  to  save  it.  Doing  the  hero  bit,  
you  know.  He  jumped  right  in,
but     the  baby  was  gone.  Maybe  he was wearing a jacket or something. 
When your clothes get
wet, they drag you down.'

Eddie  abruptly  put  his  hand  into  his  pocket  and  brought  out  a  small 
 brown  glass  bottle.  He
opened it, took out two white pills, and swallowed them dry.

'What were those?' Beverly asked.

'Aspirin. I've got a headache.' He looked at her defensively, but Beverly said 
nothing more.

Ben  finished.  After  the  incident  of  the  baby  (he  himself,  he  said,  
had  heard  that  it  was
actually  a  kid,  a  little  gjrl  of  about  three),  the  Town  Council  had 
 voted  to  lock  the  Standpipe,
both  downstairs  and  up,  and  stop  the  daytrips  and  picnics  on  the  
gallery.  It  had  remained
locked  from  then  until  now.  Oh,  the  caretaker  came  and  went,  and  
the  maintenance  men  once
in  awhile,  and  once  every  season  there  were  guided  tours.  Interested  
citizens  could  follow  a
lady  from  the  Historical  Society  up  the  spiral  of  stairs  to  the  
gallery  at  the  top,  where  they
could  ooh  and  aah  over  the  view  and  snap  Kodaks  to  show  their  
friends.  But  the  door  to  the
inner sleeve was always locked now.

'Is it still full of water?' Stan asked.

'I  guess  so,'  Ben  said.  'I've  seen  firetrucks  filling  up  there  
during  grassfire  season.  They
hook a hose to the pipe at the bottom.'

Stanley  was  looking  at  the  dryer  again,  watching  the  rags  go  around  
and  Mound.  The
clump had broken up now, and some of them floated like parachutes.

'What did you see there?' Bev asked him gently.

For  a  moment  it  seemed  he  would  not  answer  at  all.  Then  he  drew  a 
 deep,  shuddering
breath  and  said  something  that  at  first  struck  them  all  as  being  
far  from  the  point.  'They
named  it  Memorial  Park  after  the  23rd  Maine  in  the  Civil  War.  The  
Derry  Blues,  they  were
called.  There  used  to  be  a  statue,  but  it  blew  down  during  a  storm 
 in  the  forties. They didn't
have money enough to fix the statue, so they put in a birdbath instead. A big 
stone birdbath.'


They were all looking at him. Stan swallowed. There was an audible click in his 
throat.

'I  watch  birds,  you  see.  I  have  an  album,  a  pair  of  Zeiss-Ikon  
binoculars,  and  everything.'
He looked at Eddie. 'Do you have any more aspirins?'

Eddie  handed  him  the  bottle.  Stan  took  two,  hesitated,  then  took  
another.  He  gave  the

bottle  back  and  swallowed  the  pills,  one  after  another,  grimacing.  
Then  he  went  on  with  his
story.

10

Stan's  encounter  had  happened  on  a  rainy  April  evening  two  months  
ago.  He  had  donned  his
slicker,  put  his  bird-book and his binoculars in a waterproof sack with a 
drawstring at the top,
and  set  out  for  Memorial  Park.  He  and  his  father  usually  went  out  
together,  but  his  father  had
had to 'work over' that night and had called specially at suppertime to talk to 
Stan.

One  of  his  customers  at  the  agency,  another  birdwatcher,  had  spotted  
what  he  believed  to
be  a  male  cardinal  —  Fringillidae  Richmondena  —  drinking  from  the  
birdbath  in  Memorial
Park,  he  told  Stan.  They  liked  to  eat,  drink,  and  bathe  right  
around  dusk.  It  was  very  rare  to
spot  a  cardinal  this  far  north  of  Massachusetts.  Would  Stan  like  to  
go  down  there  and  see if
he could collect it? He knew the weather was pretty foul, but . . .

Stan  had  been  agreeable.  His  mother  made  him  promise  to  keep  the  
hood  of  his  slicker  up,
but  Stan  would  have  done  that  anyway.  He  was  a  fastidious  boy.  
There  were  never  any  fights
about getting him to wear his rubbers or his snowpants in the winter.

He  walked  the  mile  and  a  half  to  Memorial  Park  in  a  ram  so  fine  
and  hesitant  that  it  really
wasn't  even  a  drizzle;  it  was  more  like  a  constant  hanging  mist.  
The  air  was  muted  but
somehow  exciting  just  the  same.  In  spite  of  the  last  dwindling  piles 
 of  snow  under  bushes  and
in  groves  of  trees  (to  Stan  they  looked  like  piles  of  dirty  
cast-off  pillowcases),  there  was  a
smell  of  new  growth  in  the  air.  Looking  at  the  branches  of  elms  
and  maples  and  oaks  against
the   lead-white   sky,   Stan   thought   that   their   silhouettes   looked  
 mysteriously   thicker.   They
would burst open in a week or two, unrolling leaves of a delicate, almost 
transparent green.

The air smells green tonight, he thought, and smiled a little.

He  walked  quickly  because  the  light  would  be  gone  in  an  hour  or  
even  less.  He  was  as
fastidious  about  his  sightings  as  he  was  about  his  dress  and  study  
habits,  and  unless  there  was
enough  light  left  for  him  to  be  absolutely  sure,  he  would  not  allow 
 himself  to  collect  the
cardinal even if he knew in his heart he had really seen it.

He  cut  across  Memorial  Park  on  a  diagonal.  The  Standpipe  was  a  
white  bulking  shape  to
his left. Stan barely glanced at it. He had no interest whatsoever in the 
Standpipe.

Memorial  Park  was  a  rough  rectangle  which  sloped  downhill.  The  grass  
(white  and  dead  at
this  time  of  year)  was  kept  neatly  cut  in  the  summertime,  and  there 
 were  circular  beds  of
flowers.  There  was  no  playground  equipment,  however.  This  was  
considered  a  grownups'
park.

At the far end, the grade smoothed out before dropping abruptly down to Kansas 
Street and
the  Barrens  beyond.  The  birdbath  his  father  had  mentioned  stood  on  
this  flat  area.  It  was  a
shallow  stone  dish  set  into  a  squat  masonry  pedestal  that  was  really 
 much  too  big  for  the
humble  function  it  fulfilled.  Stan's  father  had  told  him  that,  before 
 the  money  ran  out,  they
had intended to put the statue of the soldier back up here again.

'I like the birdbath better, Daddy,' Stan said.

Mr  Uris  ruffled  his  hair.  'Me  too,  son,'  he  said.  'More  baths  and  
less  bullets,  that's  my
motto.'


At the top of this pedestal a motto had been carved in the stone. Stanley read 
it but did not
understand  it;  the  only  Latin  he  understood  was  the  genus  
classifications  of  the  birds  in  his
book.

Apparebat eidolon senex

— Pliny

the inscription read.

Stan  sat  down  on  a  bench,  took  his  bird-album  out  of  the  bag,  and  
turned  over  to  the
picture   of   the   cardinal   one   more   time,   going   over   it,   
familiarizing   himself   with   the
recognizable  points.  A  male  cardinal  would  be  hard  to  mistake  for  
something  else  —  it was
as  red  as  a  fire-engine,  if  not  so  large  —  but  Stan  was  a  
creature  of  habit  and  convention;
these  things  comforted  him  and  reinforced his  sense  of  place  and  
belonging  in  the  world.  So
he  gave  the  picture  a  good  three-minute  study  before  closing  the  
book  (the  moisture  in  the  air
was making the corners of the pages turn up) and putting it back into the bag. 
He uncased his
binoculars  and  put  them  to  his  eyes.  There  was  no  need  to  adjust  
the  field  of  focus,  because
the  last  time  he  had  used  the  glasses  he  had  been  sitting  on  this  
same  bench  and  looking  at
that same birdbath.

Fastidious  boy,  patient  boy.  He  did  not  fidget.  He  did  not  get  up 
and walk around or swing
the  binoculars  here  and  there  to  see  what  else  there  might  be  to  
be  seen.  He  sat  still,  field
glasses trained on the birdbath, and the mist collected in fat drops on his 
yellow slicker.

He  was  not  bored.  He  was  looking  down  into  the  equivalent  of  an  
avian  convention-site.

Four  brown  sparrows  sat  there  for  awhile,  dipping  into  the  water  
with  their  beaks,  flicking
droplets  casually  back  over  their  shoulders  and  onto  their  backs.  
Then  a  bluejay  came  hauling
in   like  a  cop  breaking up a gaggle of loiterers. The jay was as big as a 
house in Stan's glasses,
his  quarrelsome  cries  absurdly  thin  by  comparison  (after  you  looked  
through  the  binoculars
steadily  for  awhile  the  magnified  birds  you  saw  began  to  seem  not  
odd  but  perfectly  correct).
The  sparrows  flew  off.  The  jay,  now  in  charge,  strutted,  bathed,  
grew  bored,  departed.  The
sparrows returned, then flew off again as a pair of robins cruised in to bathe 
and (perhaps) to
discuss  matters  of  importance  to  the  hollow-boned  set.  Stan's  father  
had  laughed  at  Stan's
hesitant  suggestion  that  maybe  birds  talked,  and  he  was  sure  his  dad 
 was  right  when  he  said
birds  weren't  smart  enough  to  talk  —  that their brain-pans were too 
small  — but by gosh they
sure  looked  like  they  were  talking.  A  new  bird  joined  them.  It  was  
red.  Stan  hastily  adjusted
the field of focus on the binoculars a bit. Was it . . . ? No. It was a scarlet 
tanager, a good bird
but not the cardinal he was looking for. It was joined by a flicker that was a 
frequent visitor to
the  Memorial  Park  birdbath.  Stan  recognized  him  by  the  tattered  right 
 wing.  As  always,  he
speculated  on  how  that  might  have  happened  —  a  close  call  with  some 
 cat  seemed  the  most
likely  explanation.  Other  birds  came  and  went.  Stan  saw  a  grackle,  
as  clumsy  and  ugly as a
flying  boxcar,  a  bluebird,  another  flicker.  He  was  finally  rewarded  
by  a  new  bird  —  not the
cardinal  but  a  cowbird  that  looked  vast  and  stupid  in  the  eyepieces  
of  the  binoculars.  He
dropped  them  against  his  chest  and  fumbled  the  bird-book  out  of  the 
bag again, hoping that
the   cowbird   wouldn't   fly   away   before   he   could   confirm   the   
sighting.   He   would   have
something  to  take  home  to  his  father,  at  least.  And  it  was  time  to 
 go.  The  light  was  fading
fast.      He  felt  cold  and  damp.  He  checked  the  book,  then  lo oked  
through  the  glasses  again.  It
was  still  there,  not  bathing  but  only  standing  on  the  rim  of  the  
birdbath  looking  dumb.  It  was
almost  surely  a  cowbird.  With  no  distinctive  markings  —  at  least  
none  he  could  pick  up  at
this distance  —  and  in  the  fading  light it was hard to be one hundred 
percent sure, but maybe
he  had  just  enough  time  and  light  for  one  more  check.  He  looked  at 
 the  picture  in  the  book,
studying  it  with  a  fierce  frown  of  concentration,  and  then  picked  up 
 the  glasses  again.  He  had
only  fixed  them  on  the  birdbath  when  a  hollow  rolling  boom!  sent the 
cowbird   —  if  it  had


been  a  cowbird  —  winging.  Stan  tried  to  follow  it  with  the  glasses, 
 knowing  how  slim  his
chances  were  of  picking  it  up  again.  He  lost  it  and  made  a  hissing 
 sound  of  disgust  between
his  teeth.  Well,  if  it  had  come  once  it  would  perhaps  come  again.  
And  it  had  only  been  a
cowbird

(probably a cowbird)

after all, not a golden eagle or a great auk.

Stan  recased  his  binoculars  and  put  away  his  bird-album.  Then  he  got 
 up  and  looked
around  to  see  if  he  could  tell  what  had  been  responsible  for  that  
sudden  loud  noise.  It  hadn't
sounded  like  a  gun  or  a  car  backfire.  More  like  a  door  being  
thrown  open  in  a  spooky  movie
about castles and dungeons . . . complete with hokey echo effects.

He could see nothing.

He got up and started toward the slope down to Kansas Street. The Standpipe was 
now on
his   right,   a   chalky   white   cylinder,   phantomlike   in   the   mist   
and   the   growing   darkness.   It
seemed almost to . . . to float.

That  was  an odd thought. He supposed it must have come from his own head  — 
where else
could a thought come from? — but it somehow did not seem like his own thought 
at all.

He  looked  at  the  Standpipe  more  closely,  and  then  veered  in  that  
direction  without  even
thinking  about  it.  Windows  circled  the  building  at  intervals,  rising  
around  it  in  a  spiral  that
made  Stan  think  of  the  barber  pole  in  front  of  Mr  Aurlette's  shop,  
where  he  and  his  dad  got
their  haircuts.  The  bone-white  shingles  bulged  out  over  each  of  those 
 dark  windows  like
brows over eyes.  Wonder how they did that,  Stan thought  — not with as much 
interest as Ben
Hanscom  would  have  felt,  but  with  some  —  and  that  was  when  he  saw  
there  was  a  much
larger space of darkness at the foot of the Standpipe — a clear oblong in the 
circular base.

He    stopped,    frowning,    thinking    that    was    a    funny    place   
 for    a    window:    it    was
completely     out     of     symmetry     with     the     others.     Then    
 he     realized     it     wasn't     a
window. It was a door.

The noise I heard, he thought. It was that door, blowing open.

He  looked  around.  Early,  gloomy  dusk.  White  sky  now  fading  to  a  
dull  dusky  purple,  mist
thickening  a  bit  more  toward  the  steady  rain  which  would  fall  most  
of  the  night.  Dusk  and
mist and no wind at all.

So  .  .  .  if  it  hadn't  blown  open,  had  someone  pushed  it  open?  
Why?  And  it  looked  like  an
awfully heavy door to slam open hard enough to make a noise like that boom. He 
supposed a
very big person . . . maybe . . .

Curious, Stan walked over for a closer look.

The  door  was  bigger than  he  had  first  supposed   —  six  feet  high  and 
 two  feet  thick,  the
boards  which  composed  it  bound  with  brass  strips.  Stan  swung  it  
half-closed.   It   moved
smoothly  and  easily  on  its  hinges  in  spite  of  its  size.  It  also  
moved  silently — there was not a
single  squeak.  He  had  moved  it  to  see  how  much  damage  it  had  done  
to  the  shingles,  blasting
open  like  that.  There  was  no  damage  at  all;  not  so  much  as  a  
single  mark.  Weirdsville,  as
Richie would say.

Well, it wasn't the door you heard, that's all, he thought. Maybe a jet from 
Loring boomed
over Derry, or something. Door was probably open all al —

His  foot  struck  something.  Stan  looked  down  and  saw  it  was  a  
padlock  .  .  .  correction.  It
was the  remains  of  a  padlock.  It  had  been  burst  wide  open.  It  
looked, in fact, as if someone
had  rammed  the  Lock's  keyway  full  of  gunpowder  and  then  set  a  match 
 to  it.  Flowers  of
metal,  deadly  sharp,  stood  out  from  the  body  of  the  lock  in  a  
stiff  spray.  Stan  could  see  the
layers  of  steel  inside.  The  thick  hasp  hung  askew  by one  bolt  which  
had  been  yanked  three-
uarters  of  the  way  out  of  the  wood.  The  other  three  hasp-bolts lay 
on the wet grass. They had
been twisted like pretzels.

Frowning, Stan swung the door open again and peered inside.


Narrow  stairs  led  upward,  circling  around  and  out  of  sight.  The  
outer  wall of the staircase
was  bare  wood  supported  by  giant  cross-beams  which  had  been  pegged  
together  rather  than
nailed.  To  Stan  some  of  the  pegs  looked  thicker  than  his  own  upper  
arm.  The  inner  wall  was
steel from which gigantic rivets swelled like boils.

'Is anyone here?' Stan asked.
There was no answer.

He  hesitated,  then  stepped  inside  so  he  could  see  up  the  narrow  
throat  of  the  staircase  a
little  better.  Nothing.  And  it  was  Creep  City  in  here.  As  Richie 
would  also  say. He turned to
leave . . . and heard music.

It was faint, but still instantly recognizable.
Calliope music.

He  cocked  his  head,  listening,  the  frown  on  his  face  starting  to  
dissolve  a  little.  Calliope
music,  all  right,  the  music  of  carnivals  and  county  fairs.  It  
conjured  up  trace  memories  which
were  as  delightful  as  they  were  ephemeral:  popcorn,  cotton  candy,  
doughboys  frying  in  hot
grease, the chain-driven clatter of rides like the Wild Mouse, the Whip, the 
Koaster-Kups.

Now  the  frown  had  become  a  tentative  grin.  Stan  went  up  one  step,  
then  two  more,  head
still  cocked.  He  paused  again.  As  if  thinking  about  carnivals  could  
actually  create  one;  he
could  now  actually  smell  the  popcorn,  the  cotton  candy,  the  doughboys 
 .  .  .  and  more!
Peppers,   chili-dogs,   cigarette   smoke   and   sawdust.   There   was   the 
  sharp   smell   of   white
vinegar,  the  kind  you  could  shake  over  your  french  fries  through  a  
hole  in  the  tin  cap.  He
could  smell  mustard,  bright  yellow  and  stinging  hot,  that  you  spread  
on  your  hotdog  with  a
wooden paddle.

This was amazing . . . incredible . . . irresistible.

He  took  another  step  up  and  that  was  when  he  heard  the  rustling,  
eager  footsteps  above
him,  descending  the  stairs.  He  cocked  his  head  again.  The  calliope  
music  had gotten suddenly
louder,  as  if  to  mask  the  sound  of  the  footsteps.  He  could  
recognize  the  tune  now  —  it was
'Camptown Races.'

Footsteps,   yeah:   but   they   weren't   exactly  rustling   footsteps,  
were  they?  They  actually
sounded  kind  of  .  .  .  squishy,  didn't  they?  The  sound  was  like  
people  walking  in  rubbers  full
of water.

Camptown ladies sing dis song, doodah doodah
(Squish-squish)

Camptown Racetrack nine miles long, doodah doodah

(Squish-slosh — closer now)
Ride around all night

Ride around all day . . .

Now there were shadows bobbing on the wall above him.

The  terror  leaped  down  Stan's  throat  all  at  once  —  it  was  like  
swallowing  something  hot
and  horrible,  bad  medicine  that  suddenly  galvanized  you  like  
electricity.  It  was  the  shadows
that did it.

He  saw  them  only  for  a  moment.  He  had  just  that  small  bit  of  time 
 to  observe  that there
were two of them, that they were slumped, and somehow unnatural. He had only 
that moment
because  the  light  in  here  was  fading,  fading  too  fast,  and  as  he  
turned,  the  heavy Standpipe
door swung ponderously shut behind him.

Stanley ran back down the stairs (somehow he had climbed more than a dozen, 
although he
could  only  remember  climbing  two,  three  at  most),  very  much  afraid  
now.  It  was  too  dark  in
here  to  see  anything.  He  could  hear  his  own  breathing,  he  could  
hear  die  calliope  tootling
away somewhere above him


(what's a calliope doing up there in the dark? who's playing it?)

and he could hear those wet footsteps. Approaching him now. Getting closer.

He  hit  the  door  with  his  hands  splayed  out  in  front  of  him,  hit  
it  hard  enough  to  send
sparkly  tingles  of  pain  all  the  way  up  to  his  elbows.  It  had  swung 
 so  easily  before  .  .  .  and
now it would not move at all.

No . . . that was not quite true. At first it had moved just a bit, just enough 
for him to see a
mocking   strip   of   gray   light   running   vertically   down   its   left  
 side.   Then   gone   again.   As   if
someone was on the other side of it, holding the door closed.

Panting,  terrified,  Stan  pushed  against  the  door  with  all  of  his  
strength.  He  could  feel  the

brass bindings digging into his hands. Nothing.

He  whirled  around,  now  pressing  his  back  and  his  splayed  hands  
against  the  door.  He
could  feel  sweat,  oily  and  hot,  running  down  his  forehead.  The  
calliope  music  had  gotten
louder  yet.  It  drifted  and  echoed  down  the  spiral  staircase.  There  
was  nothing  cheery  about  it
now.  It  had  changed.  It  had  become  a  dirge.  It  screamed  like  wind  
and  water,  and  in  his
mind's  eye  Stan  saw  a  county  fair  at  the  end  of  autumn,  wind  and 
rain blowing up a deserted
midway,  pennons  flapping,  tents  bulging,  falling  over,  wheeling  away  
like  canvas  bats.  He
saw  empty  rides  standing  against  the  sky  like  scaffolds;  the  wind  
drummed  and  hooted  in  the
weird  angles  of  their  struts.  He  suddenly  understood  that  death  was  
in  this  place  with  him,
that death was coming for him out of the dark and he could not run.

A  sudden  rush  of  water  spilled  down  the  stairs.  Now  it  was  not  
popcorn  and  doughboys
and  cotton  candy  he  smelled  but  wet  decay,  the  stench of dead pork 
which has exploded in a
fury of maggots in a place hidden away from the sun.

'Who's here?' he screamed in a high, trembling voice.

He was answered by a low, bubbling voice that seemed choked with mud and old 
water.

'The  dead  ones,  Stanley.  We're  the  dead  ones.  We  sank,  but  now  we  
float  .  .  .  and  you'll
float, too.'

He  could  feel  water  washing  around  his  feet.  He  cringed  back  against 
 the  door  in  an  agony
of  fear.  They  were  very  close  now.  He  could  feel  their  nearness.  He 
 could  smell  them.
Something  was  digging  into  his  hip  as  he  struck  the  door  again  and  
again  in  a  mindless,
useless effort to get away.

'We're dead, but sometimes we clown around a little, Stanley. Sometimes we — '
It was his bird-book.

Without  thinking,  Stan  grabbed  for  it.  It  was  stuck  in  his  slicker  
pocket  and  wouldn't  come
out.  One  of  them  was  down  now;  he  could  hear  it  shuffling  across  
the  little  stone  areaway
where he had come in. It would reach for him in a moment, and he would feel its 
cold flesh.

He gave one more tremendous yank, and the bird-book was in his hands. He held 
it in front
of  him  like  a  puny  shield,  not  thinking  of  what  he  was  doing,  but  
suddenly  sure  that  this  was
right.

'Robins!'  he  screamed  into  the  darkness,  and  for  a  moment  the  thing  
approaching  (it  was
surely  less  than  five  steps  away  now)  hesitated  —  he  was  almost  
sure  it  did.  And  for  a
moment hadn't he felt some give in the door against which he was now cringing?

But  he  wasn't  cringing  anymore.  He  was  standing  up  straight  in  the  
darkness.  When  had

that happened? No time to wonder. Stan licked his dry lips and began to chant: 
'Robins! Gray
egrets!    Loons!    Scarlet    tanagers!    Crackles!    Hammerhead    
woodpeckers!    Red-headed
woodpeckers! Chickadees! Wrens! Peli — '

The  door  opened  with  a  protesting  scream  and  Stan  took  a  giant  step 
 backward  into  thin
misty  air.  He  fell  sprawling  on  the  dead  grass.  He  had  bent  the  
bird-book  nearly  in  half,  and
later  that  night  he  would  see  the  clear  impressions  of  his  fingers  
sunken  into   its  cover,  as  if  it
had been bound in Play-Doh instead of hard pressboard.


He  didn't  try  to  get  up  but  began  to  dig  in  with  his  heels  
instead,  his  butt  grooving  through
the  slick  grass.  His  lips  were  pulled  back  over  his  teeth.  Inside  
that  dim  oblong  he could see
two  sets  of  legs  below  the  diagonal  shadowline  thrown  by  the  door,  
which  now  stood  half-
open.  He  could  see  jeans  that  had  decayed  to  a  purplish-black.  
Orange  threads  lay  plastered
limply  against  the  seams,  and  water  dripped  from  the  cuffs  to  puddle 
 around  shoes  that  had
mostly rotted away, revealing swelled, purple toes within.

Their   hands   lay   limply   at   their   sides,   too   long,   too   
waxy-white.  Depending  from  each
finger was a small orange pompom.

Holding  his  bent  bird-book  in  front  of  him,  his face wet with drizzle, 
sweat, and tears, Stan

whispered  in  a  husky  monotone:  'Chickenhawks  .  .  .  grosbeaks  .  .  .  
hummingbirds  .  .  .
albatrosses . . . kiwis . . . '

One  of  those  hands  turned  over,  showing  a  palm  from  which  endless  
water  had  eroded  all
the lines, leaving something as idiot-smooth as the hand of a department-store 
dummy.

One    finger    unrolled    .    .    .    then    rolled    up    again.    
The    pompom    bounced    and

dangled, dangled and bounced.

It was beckoning him.

Stan  Uris,  who  would  die  in  a  bathtub  with  crosses  slashed  into  his 
 forearms  twenty-seven
years  later,  got  to  his  knees,  then  to  his  feet,  then  ran.  He  ran  
across  Kansas  Street  without
looking either way for traffic and paused, panting, on the far sidewalk, to 
look back.

From  this  angle  he  couldn't  see  the  door  in  the  base  of  the  
Standpipe;  only  the Standpipe
itself,   thick   and   yet   somehow   graceful,   standing   in   the   murk. 
  'They   were   dead,'   Stan
whispered to himself, shocked. He wheeled suddenly and ran for home.

11

The dryer had stopped. So had Stan.

The  three  others  only  looked  at  him  for  a  long  moment.  His  skin  
was  nearly  as  gray  as  the
April evening of which he had just told them.

'Wow,' Ben said at last. He let out his breath in a ragged, whistling sigh.
'It's true,' Stan said in a low voice. 'I swear to God it is.'

'I believe .you,' Beverly said. 'After what happened at my house, I'd believe 
anything.'

She  got  up  suddenly,  almost  knocking  over  her  chair,  and  went  to  
the  dryer.  She  began  to
pull  out  the  rags  one  by  one,  folding  them.  Her  back  was  turned,  
but  Ben  suspected  she  was
crying. He wanted to go to her and lacked the courage.

'We gotta talk to Bill about this,' Eddie said. 'Bill will know what to do.'
'Do?' Stan said, turning to look at him. 'What do you mean, do?

Eddie looked at him, uncomfortable. 'Well . . . '

'I  don't  want  to   do  anything,'  Stan  said.  He  was  looking  at  Eddie  
with  such  a  hard,  fierce
stare that Eddie squirmed in his chair. 'I want to forget about it. That's all 
I want to do.'

'Not  that  easy,'  Beverly  said  quietly,  turning  around.  Ben  had  been  
right:  the  hot  sunlight
slanting  in  through  the  Washateria's  dirty  windows  reflected  off  
bright  lines  of  tears  on  her
cheeks.  'It's  not  just   us.  I  heard  Ronnie  Grogan.  And  the  little  
boy  I  heard  first  .  .  .  I  think
maybe it was that little Clements kid. The one who disappeared off his trike.'

'So what?' Stan said defiantly.

'So what if it gets more?' she asked. 'What if it gets more kids?'

His  eyes,  a  hot  brown,  locked  with  her  blue  ones,  answering  the  
question  without  speaking:

So what if it does?


But Beverly did not look down or away and at last Stan dropped his own eyes . . 
. perhaps
only  because  she  was  still  crying,  but  perhaps  because  her  concern  
somehow  made  her
stronger.

'Eddie's right,' she said. 'We ought to talk to Bill. Then maybe to the Police 
Chief — '

'Right,'  Stan  said.  If  he  was  trying  to  sound  contemptuous,  it  
didn't  work.  His  voice  came
out  sounding  only  tired.  'Dead  kids  in  the  Standpipe  Blood  that  only 
 kids  can  see,  not
grownups.  Clowns  walking  on  the  Canal.  Balloons  that  blow  against  the 
 wind.  Mummies.
Lepers under porches. Chief Borton'll laugh his bum off . . . and then stick us 
in the loonybin.'

'If we all went to him,' Ben said, troubled. 'If we all went together . . . '

'Sure,' Stan said. 'Right. Tell me more, Haystack. Write me a book.' He got up 
and went to
the  window,  hands  in  pockets,  looking  angry  and  upset  and  scared.  He 
 stared  out  for  a
moment,  shoulders  stiff  and  rejecting  beneath  his  neat  shirt.  Without  
turning  back  to  them  he
repeated: 'Write me a frigging book!'

'No,' Ben said quietly, 'Bill's going to write the books.'

Stan  wheeled  back,  surprised,  and  the  others  looked  at  him.  There  
was  a  shocked  look  on
Ben Hanscom's face, as if he had suddenly and unexpectedly slapped himself.

Bev folded the last of the rags.
'Birds,' Eddie said.

'What?' Bev and Ben said together.

Eddie was looking at Stan. 'You got out by yelling birds' names at them?'

'Maybe,' Stan said reluctantly. 'Or maybe the door was just stuck and finally 
popped open.'
'Without you leaning on it?' Bev asked.

Stan shrugged. It was not a sullen shrug; it only said he didn't know.

'I  think  it  was  the  birds  you  shouted  at them,' Eddie said. 'But why? 
In the movies you hold
up a cross . . . '

' . . . or say the Lord's Prayer . . . ' Ben added.

' . . . or the Twenty-third Psalm,' Beverly put in.

'I  know  the  Twenty-third  Psalm,'  Stan  said  angrily,  'but  I  wouldn't  
do so good with the old
crucifix business. I'm Jewish, remember?'

They  looked  away  from  him,  embarrassed,  either  for  his  having  been  
born  that  way  or  for
their having forgotten it.

'Birds,'  Eddie  said  again.  'Jesus!'  Then  he  glanced  guiltily  at  Stan  
again,  but  Stan  was
looking moodily across the street at the Bangor Hydro office.

'Bill  will  know  what  to  do,'  Ben  said  suddenly,  as  if  finally  
agreeing  with  Bev  and  Eddie.

'Betcha anything. Betcha any amount of money.'

'Look,'  Stan  said,  looking  at  all  of  them  earnestly.  'That's  okay.  
We  can  talk  to  Bill  about  it
if you want. But that's where things stop for me. You can call me a chicken, or 
yellow, I don't
care. I'm not a chicken, I don't think. It's just that those things in the 
Standpipe . . . '

'If  you  weren't  afraid  of  something  like  that,  you'd  have  to  be  
crazy,  Stan,'  Beverly  said
softly.

'Yeah,  I  was  scared,  but  that's  not  the  problem,'  Stan  said  hotly.  
'It's  not  even  what  I'm
talking about. Don't you see —

They  were  looking  at  him  expectantly,  their  eyes  both  troubled  and  
faintly  hopeful,  but
Stan  found  he  could  not  explain  how  he  felt.  The  words  had  run  
out.  There  was  a  brick  of
feeling  inside  him,  almost  choking  him,  and  he  could  not  get  it  out 
 of  his  throat.  Neat  as  he
was,  sure  as  he  was,  he  was  still  only  an  eleven-year-old  boy  who  
had  that  year  finished  the
fourth grade.

He  wanted  to  tell  them  that  there  were  worse  things  than  being  
frightened.  You  could  be
frightened  by  things  like  almost  having  a  car  hit  you  while  you  
were  riding  your  bike  or,
before  the  Salk  vaccine,  getting  polio.  You  could  be  frightened  of  
that  crazyman  Khrushchev


or  of  drowning  if  you  went  out  over  your  head.  You  could  be  
frightened  of  all  those  things
and still function.

But those things in the Standpipe . . .

He  wanted  to  tell  them  that  those  dead  boys  who  had  lurched  and  
shambled  their  way
down  the  spiral  staircase  had  done  something  worse  than  frighten  him: 
 they  had  offended
him.

Offended, yes. It was the only word he could think  of, and if he used it they 
would laugh  —
they  liked  him,  he  knew  that,  and  they  had  accepted  him  as  one  of  
them,  but  they  would  still
laugh.  All  the  same,  there  were  things  that  were  not  supposed  to  
be.  They  offended  any  sane
person's  sense  of  order,  they  offended the central idea that God had given 
the earth a final tilt
on  its  axis  so  that  twilight  would  only  last  about  twelve  minutes  
at  the  equator  and  linger  for
an  hour  or  more  up  where  the  Eskimos  built  their  ice-cube houses, 
that He had done that and
He  then  had  said,  in  effect:  'Okay,  if  you  can  figure  out  the  
tilt,  you  can  figure  out  any  damn
thing   you   choose.   Because   even   light   has   weight,   and   when   
the   note   of   a   trainwhistle
suddenly  drops  it's  the  Doppler  effect  and  when  an  airplane  breaks  
the  sound barrier that bang
isn't  the  applause  of  the  angels  or  the  flatulence  of  demons  but  
only  air  collapsing  back  into
place.  I  gave  you  the  tilt  and  then  I  sat  back  about  halfway  up  
the  auditorium  to  watch  the
show.  I  got  nothing  else  to  say,  except  that  two  and two makes four, 
the lights in the sky are
stars, if there's blood grownups can see it as well as kids, and dead boys stay 
dead.' You can
live  with  fear,  I  think,  Stan  would  have  said  if  he  could.  Maybe  
not  forever,  but  for  a  long,
long  time.  It's  offense  you  maybe  can't  live  with,  because  it  opens  
up  a  crack  inside  your
thinking,  and  if  you  look  down  into  it  you  see  there  are  live  
things  down  there,  and  they  have
little  yellow  eyes  that  don't  blink,  and  there's  a  stink  down  in  
that  dark,  and  after  awhile you
think  maybe  there's  a  whole  other  universe  down  there,  a  universe  
where  a  square  moon  rises
in  the  sky,  and  the  stars  laugh  in  cold  voices,  and  some  of  the  
triangles  have  four  sides,  and
some  have  five,  and  some  of  them  have  five  raised  to  the  fifth  
power of sides. In this universe
there  might  grow  roses  which  sing.  Everything  leads  to  everything,  he 
 would  have  told  them
if he could. Go to your church and listen to your stories about Jesus walking 
on the water, but
if  I  saw  a  guy  doing  that  I'd  scream and  scream  and  scream.  Because 
 it  wouldn't  look  like  a
miracle to me. It would look like an offense.

Because   he   could   say   none   of   these   things,   he   just   
reiterated:   'Being   scared   isn't   the
problem. I just don't want to be involved in something that will land me in the 
nuthatch.'

'Will you at least go with us to talk to him?' Bev asked. 'Listen to what he 
says?'
'Sure,' Stan said, and then laughed. 'Maybe I ought to bring my bird-book.'
They all laughed then, and it was a little easier.

12

Beverly  left  them  outside  the  Kleen-Kloze  and  took  the  rags  back  
home  by  herself.  The
apartment  was  still  empty.  She  put  them  under  the  kitchen  sink  and  
closed  the  cupboard.  She
stood up and looked down toward the bathroom.

I'm not going down there,  she thought. I'm going to watch  Bandstand on TV. 
See if I can't
learn how to do the Dog.

So  she  went  into  the  living  room  and  turned  on  the  TV  and  five  
minutes  later  she  turned  it
off  while  Dick  Clark  was  showing  how  much  oil  just one  Stri-Dex  
medicated pad  could  take
off  the  face  of  your  average  teenager  ('If  you  think  you  can  get  
clean  with  just  soap  and
water,'  Dick  said,  holding  the  dirty  pad  up  to  the  glassy  eye  of  
the  camera  so  that  every
teenager in America could get a good look, 'you ought to take a good look at 
this.').


She  went  back  to  the  kitchen  cupboard  over  the  sink,  where  her  
father  kept  his  tools.
Among  them  was  a  pocket  tape,  the  kind  that  runs  out  a  long  yellow 
 tongue  of  inches.  She
folded this into one cold hand and went down to the bathroom.

It  was  sparkling  clean,  silent.  Somewhere,  far  distant,  it  seemed,  
she  could  hear  Mrs  Doyon
yelling for her boy Jim to get in out of the road, right now.

She went to the bathroom basin and looked down into the dark eye of the drain.

She  stood  there  for  some  time,  her  legs  as  cold  as  marble  inside  
her  jeans,  her  nipples
feeling  sharp  enough  and  hard  enough  to  cut  paper,  her  lips  dead  
dry.  She  waited  for  the
voices.

No voices came.

A  little  shuddery  sigh  came  from  her,  and  she  began  to  feed  the  
thin  steel  tape  into  the
drain.  It  went  down  smoothly  —  like  a  sword  into  the  gullet  of  a  
'county  fair  sideshow
performer.  Six  inches,  eight  inches,  ten.  It  stopped,  bound  up  in  
the  elbow-bend  under  the
sink,  Beverly  supposed.  She  wiggled  it,  pushing  gently  at  the  same  
time,  and  eventually  the
tape began to feed into the drain again. Sixteen inches now, then two feet, 
then three.

She  watched  the  yellow  tape  slipping  out  of  the  chromed-steel  case,  
which  had  been  worn
black  on  the  sides  by  her  father's  big  hand.  In  her  mind's  eye  she 
 saw  it  sliding  through  the
black  bore  of  the  pipe,  picking  up  some  muck,  scraping  away  flakes  
of  rust.  Down  there
where the sun never shines and the night never stops, she thought.

She  imagined  the  head  of the  tape,  with  its  small  steel  buttplate  no 
 bigger  than  a  fingernail,
sliding  farther  and  farther  into  the  darkness,  and  part  of  her  mind  
screamed   What  are  you
doing?  She did not ignore that voice . . . but she seemed helpless to heed it. 
She saw the end
of  the  tape  going  straight  down  now,  descending  into  the  cellar.  She 
 saw  it  striking  the
sewage pipe . . . and even as she saw it, the tape bound up again.

She wiggled it again, and the tape, thin enough to be limber, made a faint 
eerie sound that
reminded her a little bit of the way a saw sounds when you bend it back and 
forth across your
legs.

She  could  see  its  tip  wiggling  against  the  bottom  of  this  wider  
pipe,  which  would  have  a
baked ceramic surface. She could see it bending . . . and then she  was able to 
push it forward
again.

She ran out six feet. Seven. Nine —

And  suddenly  the  tape  began  to  run  through  her  hands  by  itself,  as  
if  something  down  there
was  pulling  the  other  end.  Not  just  pulling  it:  running  with  it.  
She  stared  at  the  flowing tape,
her eyes wide, her mouth a sagging O of fear  — fear, yes, but no surprise. 
Hadn't she  known?
Hadn't she known something like this was going to happen?

The tape ran out to its final stop. Eighteen feet; an even six yards.

A  soft  chuckle  came  wafting  out  of  the  drain,  followed  by  a  low  
whisper  that  was  almost
reproachful: 'Beverly, Beverly, Beverly . . . you can't fight us . . . you'll 
die if you try . . . die if
you try . . . die if you try . . . Beverly . . . Beverly . . . Beverly . . . 
ly-ly-ly . . . '

Something  clicked  inside  the  tape-measure's  housing,  and  it  suddenly  
began  to  run  rapidly
back into its case, the numbers and hashmarks blurring by. Near the end  — the 
last five or six
feet  —  the  yellow  became  a  dark,  dripping  red  and  she screamed and 
dropped it on the floor
as if the tape had suddenly turned into a live snake.

Fresh  blood  trickled  over  the  clean  white  porcelain  of  the  basin  and 
 back  down  into  the
drain's  wide  eye.  She  bent,  sobbing  now,  her  fear  a  freezing  weight  
in  her  stomach,  and
picked  the  tape  up.  She  tweezed  it  between  the  thumb  and  first  
finger  of  her  right  hand  and,
holding  it  in  front  of  her,  took  it  into  the  kitchen.  As  she  
walked,  blood  dripped  from  the  tape
onto the faded linoleum of the hall and the kit chen.


She  steadied  herself  by  thinking  of  what  her  father  would  say  to  
her  —  what he would  do
to her  —  if he found that she had gotten his measuring tape all bloody. Of 
course, he wouldn't
be able to see the blood, but it helped to think that.

She  took  one  of  the  clean  rags   —  still as warm as fresh bread from the 
dryer  — and went
back  into  the  bathroom.  Before  she  began  to  clean,  she  put  the  hard 
 rubber  plug  in  the  drain,
closing  that  eye.  The  blood  was  fresh,  and  it  cleaned  up  easily.  
She  went  up  her own trail,
wiping  away  the  dune-sized  drops  on  the  linoleum,  then  rinsing  the  
rag,  wringing  it  out,  and
putting it aside.

She got a second rag and used it to clean her father's measuring tape. The 
blood was thick,

viscous. In two places there were clots of the stuff, black and spongy.

Although  the  blood  only  went  back  five  or  six  feet,  she  cleaned  the 
 entire  length  of  the
tape,  removing  from  it  all  traces  of  pipemuck.  That  done,  she  put  
it  back  into  the  cupboard
over  the  sink  and  took  the  two  stained  rags  out  in  back  of  the  
apartment.  Mrs  Doyon  was
yelling at Jim again. Her voice was clear, almost bell-like in the still hot 
late afternoon.

In  the  back  yard,  which  was  mostly  bare  din,  weeds,  and  
clothes-lines, there Was a rusty
incinerator.  Beverly  threw  the  rags  into  it,  then  sat  down  on  the  
back  steps.  Tears  came
suddenly, with surprising violence, and this time she made no effort to hold 
them back.

She put her arms on her knees, her head in her arms, and wept while Mrs Doyon 
called for
Jim to come out of that road, did he want to get hit by a car and be killed?


'Quaeque ipsa miserrima vidi,
Et quorum pars magna fui.'

— Virgil

'You don't fuck around with the infinite.'

— Mean Streets


February 14th, 1985
Valentine's Day

Two  more  disappearances  in  the  past  week  — both children. Just as I was 
beginning to relax.
One  of  them  a  sixteen-year-old  boy  named  Dennis  Torrio,  the  other  a  
girl  of  just  five  who
was  out  sledding  in  back  of  her  house  on  West  Broadway.  The  
hysterical mother found her
sled,  one  of  those  blue  plastic  flying  saucers,  but  nothing  else.  
There  had  been  a  fresh  fall  of
snow the night before  —  four inches or so. No tracks but hers, Chief 
Rademacher said when I
called  him.  He  is  becoming  extremely  annoyed  with  me,  I  think.  Not  
anything  that's  going  to
keep me awake nights; I have worse things to do than that, don't I?

Asked him if I could see the police photos. He refused.

Asked  him  if  her  tracks  led  away  toward  any  sort  of  drain  or  sewer 
 grating. This was
followed  by  a  long  period  of  silence.  Then  Rademacher  said,  'I'm  
beginning  to  wonder  if
maybe  you  shouldn't  see  a  doctor,  Hanlon.  The  head-peeper  kind  of  
doctor.  The  kid  was
snatched by her father. Don't you read the papers?'

'Was the Torrio boy snatched by his father?' I asked.             .
Another long pause.

'Give it a rest, Hanlon,' he said. 'Give me a rest.'
He hung up.

Of  course  I  read  the  papers  —  don't  I  put  them  out  in  the  Reading 
 Room  of  the  Public
Library   each   morning   myself?   The   little   girl,   Laurie   Ann   
Winterbarger,   had   been   in   the
custody  of  her  mother  following  an  acrimonious  divorce  proceeding  in  
the  spring  of  1982.
The  police  are  operating  on  the  theory  that  Horst  Winterbarger,  who  
is  supposedly  working
as  a  machinery  maintenance  man  somewhere  in  Florida,  drove  up  to  
Maine  to  snatch  his
daughter.  They  further  theorize  that  he  parked  his  car  beside  the  
house  and  called  to  his
daughter,  who  then  joined  him —  hence the lack of any tracks other than 
the little girl's. They
have less to say about the fact that the girl had not seen her father since she 
was two. Part of
the    deep    bitterness    which   accompanied   the   Winterbargers'   
divorce   came   from   Mrs
Winterbarger's   allegations  that  on  at  least  two  occasions  Horst  
Winterbarger  had  sexually
molested  the  child.  She  asked  the  court  to  deny  Winterbarger  all  
visitation  rights,  a  request
the   court   granted   in   spite   of   Winterbarger's   hot   denials.   
Rademacher   claims   the   court's
decision,  which  had  the  effect  of  cutting  Winterbarger  off  completely  
from  his  only  child,
may   have   pushed   Winterbarger   into   taking   his   daughter.   That   
at   least   has   some   dun
plausibility,  but  ask  yourself  this:  would  little  Laurie  Ann  have  
recognized  him  after  three
years  and  run  to  him  when  he  called  her?  Rademacher  says yes, even 
though she was two the
last time she saw him. I don't think so. And her mother says Laurie Ann had 
been well trained
about  not  approaching  or  talking  to  strangers,  a  lesson  most  Derry  
children  learn  early  and
well.  Rademacher  says  he's  got  Florida  State  Police  looking  for  
Winterbarger  and  that  his
responsibility ends there.

'Matters  of  custody  are  more  the  province  of  the  lawyers  than  that  
of  the  police,'  this
pompous, overweight asshole is quoted as saying in last Friday's Derry News.

But  the  Torrio  boy  .  .  .  that's  something  else.  Wonderful  home  
life.  Played  football  for  the

Derry  Tigers.  Honor  Roll  student.  Had  gone  through  the  Outward  Bound  
Survival  School  in
the  summer  of  '84  and  passed  with  flying  colors.  No  history  of  drug 
 use.  Had a girlfriend that
he  was  apparently  head-over-heels  about.  Had  everything  to  live  for.  
Everything  to  stay  in
Derry for, at least for the next couple of years.

All the same, he's gone.

What  happened  to  him?  A  sudden  attack  of  wanderlust?  A  drunk  driver  
who  maybe  hit
him,  killed  him,  and  buried  him?  Or  is  he  maybe  still  in  Derry,  is 
 he  maybe  on  the  nightside


of  Derry,  keeping  company  with  folks  like  Betty  Ripsom  and  Patrick  
Hockstetter  and  Eddie
Corcoran and all the rest? Is it

(later)

I'm  doing  it  again.  Going  over  and  over  the  same  ground,  doing  
nothing  constructive,  only
cranking  myself  up  to  the  screaming  point.  I  jump  when  the  iron  
stairs  leading  up  to  the
stacks  creak.  I  jump  at  shadows.  I  find  myself  wondering  how  I'd  
react  if  I  was  shelving
books  up  therein  the  stacks,  pushing  my  little  rubber-wheeled  trolley  
in  front  of  me,  and  a
hand reached from between two leaning rows of books, a groping hand . . .

Had again a well-nigh insurmountable desire to begin calling them this 
afternoon. At one
point I even got as far as dialing 404, the Atlanta area code, with Stanley 
Uris's number in
front of me. Then I just held the phone against my ear, asking myself if I 
wanted to call them

because I was really sure — one hundred percent sure — or simply because I'm 
now so badly
spooked that I can't stand to be alone; that I have to talk to someone who 
knows (or will
know) what it is I am spooked about.

For a moment I could hear Richie saying Batches? BATCHES? We doan need no 
stinkin'
batches, senhorr! in his Pancho Vanilla Voice, as clearly as if he were 
standing beside me . . .
and     I hung up the phone. Because when you want to see someone as badly as I 
wanted to see
Richie — or any of them — at that moment, you just can't trust your own 
motivations. We lie
best when we lie to ourselves. The fact is, I'm still not one hundred percent 
sure. If another
body should turn up, I will call . . . but for now I must suppose that even 
such a pompous ass
as Rademacher may be right. She could have remembered her father; there may 
have been
pictures of him. And I suppose a really persuasive adult could talk a kid into 
coming to his

car, no matter what that child had been taught.

There's  another  fear  that  haunts  me.  Rademacher  suggested  that  I  
might  be  going crazy. I
don't  believe  that,  but  if  I  call  them  now,  they  may think I'm crazy. 
Worse than that, what if
they  should  not  remember  me  at  all?  Mike  Hanlon?  Who?  I  don't  
remember  any  Mike
Hanlon. I don't remember you at all. What promise?

I  feel  that  there will come a right time to call them . . . and when that 
time comes, I'll  know
that  it's  right.  Their  own  circuits  will  open  at  the  same  time.  
It's  as  if  there  are  two  great
wheels  slowly  coming  into  some  sort  of  powerful  convergence  with  each 
 other,  myself  and
the rest of Derry on one, and all my childhood friends on the other.

When the time comes, they will hear the voice of the Turtle.

So  I'll  wait,  and  sooner  or  later  I'll  know.  I  don't  believe  it's  
a  question  anymore  of  calling
them or not calling them.

Only a question of when.

February 20th, 1985

The fire at the Black Spot.

'A perfect example of how the Chamber of Commerce will try to rewrite history, 
Mike,' old
Albert   Carson   would   have   told   me,   probably   cackling   as   he   
said   it.   'They'll   try,   and
sometimes  they  almost  succeed  .  .  .  but  the  old  people  remember  how 
 things  really  went.
They always remember. And sometimes they'll tell you, if you ask them right.'

There  are  people  who  have  lived  in  Derry  for  twenty  years  and  don't 
 know that there was
once  a  'special'  barracks  for  noncoms  at  the  old  Derry  Army  Air  
Corps  Base,  a  barracks  that
was  a  good  half  a  mile  from  the  rest  of  the  base  —  and  in  the  
middle  of  February,  with  the


temperature  standing  right  around  zero  and  a  forty-mile-an-hour  wind  
howling  across  those
flat   runways   and   whopping   the   wind-chill   factor   down   to   
something   you   could   hardly
believe,  that  extra  half  a  mile  became  something  that  could  give  you 
 frost-freeze or frostbite,
or maybe even kill you.

The  other  seven barracks  had  oil  heat,  storm  windows,  and  insulation.  
They  were  toasty
and  cozy.  The  'special'  barracks,  which  housed  the  twenty-seven  men  
of  Company  E,  was
heated  by  a  balky  old  wood  furnace.  Supplies  of  wood  for  it  were  
catch-as-catch-can. The
only  insulation  was  the  deep  bank  of  pine  and  spruce  boughs  the  men 
 laid  around  the  outside.
One  of  the  men  promoted  a  complete  set  of  storm  windows  for  the  
place  one  day,  but  the
twenty-seven  inmates  of  the  'special'  barracks  were  detailed  up  to  
Bangor  that  same  day  to
help     with some work at the base up there, and when they came back that 
night, tired and cold,
all of those windows had been broken. Every one.

This   was   in   1930,   when   half   of   America's   air   force   still   
consisted   of   biplanes.   In
Washington,  Billy  Mitchell  had  been  courtmartialed  and  demoted  to  
flying  a  desk  because  his
gadfly  insistence  on  trying  to  build  a  more  modern  air  force  had  
finally  irritated  his  elders
enough for them to slap him down hard. Not long after, he would resign.

So  there  was  precious  little  flying  that  went  on  at  the  Derry  base, 
 in  spite  of  its  three
runways  (one  of  which  was  actually  paved).  Most  of  the  soldiering  
that  went  on  there  was  of
the make-work variety.

One    of    the    Company    E    soldiers    who    returned    to    Derry  
  after    his   service   tour
came to an end in 1937 was my dad. He told me this story:

'One  day  in  the  spring  of  1930  —  this  was  about  six  months  before  
the  fire  at  the  Black

Spot —  I was coming back with four of my buddies from a three-day pass we had 
spent down
in Boston.

'When  we  come  through  the  gate  there  was  this  big  old  boy  standing  
just  inside  the
checkpoint,  leaning  on  a  shovel  and  picking  the  seat  of  his  suntans  
out  of  his  ass.  A  sergeant
from  someplace  down  south.  Carroty-red  hair.  Bad  teeth.  Pimples.  Not  
much  more  than  an
ape without the body hair, if you know what I mean. There were a lot of them 
like that in the
army during the Depression.

'So  here  we  come,  four  young  guys  back  from  leave,  all  of  us  still 
 feeling  fine,  and  we
could  see  in  his  eyes that  he  was  just  looking  for  something  to  
bust  us  with.  So  we  snapped
him  salutes  as  if  he  was  General  Black  Jack  Pershing  himself.  I  
guess  we  might  have  been  all
right,  but  it  was  one  fine  late-April  day,  sun  shining  down,  and  I  
had  to  shoot  off  my  lip.  "A
good afternoon to you, Sergeant Wilson, sir," said I, and he landed on me with 
both feet.

' "Did I give you any permission to speak to me?" he asks.
'"Nawsir," I say.

'He  looks  around  at  the  rest  of  them  —  Trevor  Dawson,  Carl  Roone,  
and  Henr y Whitsun,
who  was  killed  in  the  fire  that  fall  —  and he says to them, "This here 
smart nigger is in hack
with  me.  If  the  rest  of  you  jigaboos  don't  want  to  join  him  in  
one  hardworking  dirty  bitch  of
an  afternoon,  you  get  over  to  your  barracks,  stow  your  gear,  and  
get  your  asses  over  to  the
OD. You understand?"

'Well,  they  got  going,  and  Wilson  hollers,  "Doubletime,  you  fuckers!  
Lemme  see  the  soles

of your eighty-fucking-nines!"

'So  they  doubletimed  off,  and  Wilson  took  me  over  to  one  of  the  
equipment  sheds  and  he
got  me  a  spade.  He  took  me  out  into  the  big  field  that  used  to  
be  just  about  where  the
Northeast  Airlines  Airbus  terminal  stands  today.  And  he  looks  at  me,  
kind  of  grinning,  and  he
points at the ground and he says, "You see that hole there, nigger?"

'There was no hole there, but I figured it was best for me to agree with 
whatever he said, so
I  looked  down  at  the  ground  where  he  was  pointing  and  said  I  sure  
did  see  it.  So  then  he


busted  me  one  in  the  nose  and  knocked  me  over  and  there  I  was  on  
the  ground  with  blood
running down over the last fresh shirt I had.

'"You don't see it because some bigmouth jig bastard filled it up!" he shouted 
at me, and he
had  two  big  blotches  of  color  on  his  cheeks.  But  he  was  grinning,  
too,  and  you  could  tell he
was  enjoying  himself.  "So  what  you  do,  Mr  A  Good  Afternoon  To  You,  
what  you  do  is  you
get the dirt out of my hole. Doubletime!"

'So  I  dug  for  most  two  hours,  and  pretty  soon  I  was  in  that  hole  
up  to  my  chin.  The  last
couple  of  feet  was  clay,  and  by  the  time  I  finished  I  was  standing 
 in  water  up  to  my  ankles
and my shoes were soaked right through.

'"Get  out  of  there,  Hanlon,"  Sergeant  Wilson  said.  He  was  sitting  
there  on  the  grass,
smoking a cigarette. He didn't offer me any help. I was dirt  and muck from top 
to bottom, not
to  mention  the  blood  drying  on  the  blouse  of  my  suntans.  He  stood  
up  and  walked  over.  He
pointed at the hole.

'"What do you see there, nigger?" he asked me.
'"Your hole, Sergeant Wilson," says I.

'"Yeah,  well,  I decided I don't want it," he says. "I don't want no hole dug 
by a nigger. Put
my dirt back in, Private Hanlon."

'So I filled it back in and by the time I was done the sun was going down and 
it was getting
cold.  He  comes  over  and  looks  at  it  after  I  finished  patting  down  
the  last  of  the  dirt  with  the
flat of the spade.

'"Now what do you see there, nigger?" he asks.

'"Bunch  of  dirt,  sir,"  I  said,  and  he  hit  me  again.  My  God,  Mikey, 
 I  came  this  close  to  just
bouncing  up  off  'n  the  ground  and  split ting  his  head  open  with  the 
 edge  of  that  shovel.  But  if
I'd  done  that,  I  never  would  have  looked  at  the  sky  again,  except  
through  a  set  of  bars.  Still,
there  were  times  when  I  almost  think  it  would  have  been  worth  it.  
I  managed  to  hold  my
peace somehow, though.

'"That  ain't  a  bunch  of  dirt,  you  stupid  coontail  night-fighter!"  he  
screams  at  me,  the  spit
flying   off'n   his   lips.   "That's  MY   HOLE,   and  you  best  get  the  
dirt  out  of  it  right  now!
Doubletime!"

'So  I  dug  the  dirt  out  of  his  hole  and  then  I  filled  it  in  
again,  and  then  he  asks  me  why  I
went and filled in his hole just when he was getting ready to take a crap in 
it. So I dug it out
again  and  he  drops  his  pants  and  hangs  his  skinny-shanks  cracker  
redneck  ass  over  the  hole
and he grins up at me while he's doing his business and says, "How you doin, 
Hanlon?"

'"I  am  doing  just  fine,  sir,"  I  says  right  back,  because  I  had  
decided  I  wasn't  going  to  give
up until I fell unconscious or dropped dead. I had my dander up.

'"Well,  I  aim  to  fix  that,"  he  says.  "To  start  with,  you  better  
just  fill  that  hole  in,  Private
Hanlon. And I want to see some life. You're slowin down."

'So  I  got  her  filled  in  again  and  I  could  see  by  the  way  he  was  
grinning  that  he  was  only
warming  up.  But  just  then  this  friend  of  his  came  humping  across  
the  field with a gas lantern
and  told  him  there'd  been  a  surprise  inspection  and  Wilson  was  in  
hack  for  having  missed  it.
My  friends  covered  for  me  and  I  was  okay,  but  Wilson's  friends  —  
if  that's  what  he  called
them — couldn't be bothered.

'He  let  me  go  then,  and  I  waited  to  see  if  his  name  would  go  up  
on  the  Punishment  Roster
the next day, but it never did. I guess he must have just told the Loot he 
missed the inspection
because  he  was  teaching  a  smartmouth  nigger  who  it  was  owned  all  
the  holes  at  the  Derry
army base  —  those that had already been dug and those that hadn't been. They 
probably gave
him  a  medal  instead  of  potatoes  to  peel.  And  that's  how  things  were 
 for  Company  E  here  in
Derry.'


It  was  right  around  1958  that my father told me the story, and I guess he 
was pushing fifty,
although  my  mother  was  only  forty  or  so.  I  asked  him  if  that  was  
the  way  Derry  was,  why
had he come back?

'Well,  I  was  only  sixteen  when  I  joined  the  army,  Mikey,'  he  said.  
'Lied  about  my age to
get  in.  Wasn't  my  idea,  either.  My  mother  told  me  to  do  it.  I  was 
 big,  and  that's  the  only
reason the lie stuck, I guess. I was born and grew up in Burgaw, North 
Carolina, and the only
time  we  saw  meat  was  right  after  the  tobacco  was  in,  or  sometimes 
in the winter if my father
shot  a  coon  or  a  possum.  The  only  good  thing  I  remember  about  
Burgaw  is  possum  pie  with
hoecakes spread around her just as pretty as you could want.

'So  when  my  dad  died  in  an  accident  with  some  farm  machinery,  my  
ma  said  she  was
going  to  take  Philly  Loubird  up  to  Corinth,  where  she  had  people.  
Philly  Loubird  was  the
baby of the family.'

'You   mean   my   Uncle   Phil?'   I   asked,   smiling   to   think   of   
anybody   calling   him   Philly
Loubird.  He  was  a  lawyer  in  Tucson,  Arizona,  and  had been on the City 
Council there for six
years. When I was a kid, I thought Uncle Phil was rich. For a black man in 
1958, I suppose he
was. He made twenty thousand dollars a year.

'That's who I mean,' my dad said. 'But in those days he was just a 
twelve-year-old kid who
wore a ricepaper sailor hat and mended biballs and had no shoes. He was the 
youngest, I was
the second youngest. All the others were gone  —  two dead, two married, one in 
jail. That was
Howard. He never was any good.

'"You  are  goan  join  the  army,"  your  gramma  Shirley  told  me.  "I  
dunno  if  they  start  paying
you right away or not, but once they do, you're goan send me a lotment every 
month. I hate to
send  you  away,  son,  but  if  you  don't  take  care  of  me  and  Philly,  
I  don't  know  what's  going to
become of us." She gave me my birth certificate to show the recruiter and I 
seen she fixed the
year on it somehow to make me eighteen.

'So  I  went  to  the  courthouse  where  the  army  recruiter  was  and  asked 
 about  joining  up.  He
showed  me  the  papers  and  the  line  where  I  could  make  my  mark.  "I  
kin  write  my  name,"  I
said, and he laughed like he didn't believe me.

'"Well then, you go on and write it, black boy," he says.

'"Hang on a minute," I says back. "I want to ast you a couple of questions."
'"Fire away then," he says. "I can answer anything you can ask."

"'Do  they  have  meat  twice  a  week  in  the  army?"  I  asked.  "My  mamma  
says  they  do,  but
she is powerful set on me joining up."

"'No, they don't have it twice a week," he says.

'"Well,  that's  about  what  I  thought,"  I  says,  thinking  that  the  man  
surely  does  seem  like  a
booger but at least he's an honest booger.

'Then  he  says,  "They  got  it  ever  night,"  making  me  wonder  how  I  
ever  could  have  thought
he was honest.

'"You must think I'm a pure-d fool," I says.

"'You got that right, nigger," he says.

'"Well,  if  I  join  up,  I  got  to  do  something  for  my  mamma  and  
Philly  Loubird,"  I  says.
"Mamma says it's a lotment."

"That's    this    here,"    he    says,    and    taps    the    allotment    
form.    "Now    what    else
is on your mind?"

'"Well," says I, "what about trainin to be an officer?"

'He  threw  his  head  back  when  I  said  that  and  laughed  until  I  
thought  he  was  gonna  choke
on  his  own  spit.  Then  he  says,  "Son,  the  day  they  got  nigger  
officers  in  this  man's  army  will
be the day you see the bleedin Jesus Christ doing the Charleston at Birdland. 
Now you sign or
you don't sign. I'm out of patience. Also, you're stinkin the place up."


'So  I  signed,  and  watched  him  staple  the  allotment  form  to  my  
muster-sheet,  and  then  he
give  me  the  oath,  and  then  I  was  a  soldier.  I  was  thinking  that  
they'd  send  me  up  to  New
Jersey,  where  the  army  was  building  bridges  on  account  of  there  
being  no  wars  to  fight.
Instead, I got Derry, Maine, and Company E.'

He  sighed  and  shifted  in  his  chair,  a  big  man  with  white  hair  that 
 curled  close  to  his  skull.
At that time we had one of the bigger farms in Derry, and probably the best 
roadside produce
stand  south  of  Bangor.  The  three  of  us  worked  hard,  and  my  father  
had  to  hire on extra help
during harvesting time, and we made out.

He said: 'I came back because I'd seen the South and I'd seen the North, and 
there was the

same  hate  in  both  places.  It  wasn't  Sergeant  Wilson  that  convinced  
me  of  that.  He  was
nothing  but  a  Georgia  cracker,  and  he  took  the  South  with  him  
wherever  he  went.  He  didn't
have  to  be  south  of  the  Mason-Dixon line to hate niggers. He just  did.  
No, it was the fire at
the Black Spot that convinced me of that. You know, Mikey, in a way . . . '

He glanced over at my mother, who was knitting. She hadn't looked up, but I 
knew she was
listening closely, and my father knew it too, I think.

'In a way it was the fire made me a man. There was sixty people killed in that 
fire, eighteen
of  them  from  Company  E.  There  really  wasn't  any  company  left  when  
that  fire  was  over.
Henry Whitsun . . . Stork Anson . . . Alan Snopes . . . Everett McCaslin . . . 
Horton Sartoris . .

.  all  my  friends,  all  dead  in  that  fire.  And  that  fire  wasn't  set  
by  old  Sarge  Wilson  and  his
grits-and-cornpone  friends.  It  was  set  by  the  Derry  branch  of  the  
Maine  Legion  of  White
Decency. Some of the kids you go to school with, son, their fathers struck the 
matches that lit
the Black Spot on fire. And I'm not talking about the poor kids, neither.'

'Why, Daddy? Why did they?'

'Well, part of it was just Derry,' my father said, frowning. He lit his pipe 
slowly and shook
out  the  wooden  match.  'I  don't  know  why  it  happened  here;  I  can't  
explain  it,  but  at  the  same
time I ain't surprised by it.

'The  Legion  of  White  Decency  was  the  Northerners'  version  of  the  Ku  
Klux  Klan,  you  see.
They  marched  in  the  same  white  sheets,  they  burned  the  same  crosses, 
 they  wrote  the  same
hate-notes  to  black  folks  they  felt  were  getting  above  their  station  
or  taking  jobs  that  were
meant  for  white  men.  In  churches  where  the  preachers  talked  about  
black  equality,  they
sometimes  planted  charges  of  dynamite.  Most  of  the  history  books  talk 
 more  about  the  KKK
than  they  do  about  the  Legion  of  White  Decency,  and  a  lot  of  
people  don't  even  know  there
was  such  a  thing.  I  think  it  might  be  because  most  of  the  
histories  have  been  written  by
Northerners and they're ashamed.

'It  was  most  pop'lar  in  the  big  cities  and  the  manufacturin  areas.  
New  York,  New  Jersey,
Detroit,  Baltimore,  Boston,  Portsmouth  —  they  all  had  their  chapters.  
They  tried  to  organize
in  Maine,  but  Derry  was  the  only  place  they  had  any  real  success.  
Oh,  for  awhile  there  was  a
pretty  good  chapter  in  Lewiston  —  this  was  around  the  same  time  as  
the  fire  at   the Black
Spot  —  but  they  weren't  worried  about  niggers  raping  white  women  or  
taking  jobs  that
should have belonged to white men, because there weren't any niggers to speak 
of up here. In
Lewiston  they  were  worried  about  tramps  and  hobos  and  that  something  
called  "the  bonus
army"  would  join  up  with  something  they  called  "the  Communist  
riffraff  army,"  by  which
they meant any man who was out of work. The Legion of Decency used to send 
these fellows
out  of  town  just  as  fast  as  they  came  in.  Sometimes  they  stuffed 
poison ivy down the backs of
their pants. Sometimes they set their shirts on fire.

'Well,  the  Legion  was  pretty  much  done  up  here  after  the  fire  at  
the  Black  Spot.  Things  got

out of hand, you see. The way things seem to do in this town, sometimes.'
He paused, puffing.

'It's  like  the  Legion  of  White  Decency  was  just  another  seed,  Mikey, 
 and  it  found  some

earth  that  nourished  it  well  here.  It  was  a  regular  rich-man's club. 
And after the fire, they all


just  laid  away  their  sheets  and  lied  each  other up and it was papered 
over.' Now there was a
kind  of  vicious  contempt  in  his  voice  that  made  my  mother  look  up,  
frowning.  'After  all,  who
got  killed?  Eighteen  army  niggers,  fourteen  or  fifteen  town  niggers,  
four  members  of  a  nigger
jazz-band . . . and a bunch of nigger-lovers. What did it matter?'

'Will,' my mother said softly. That's enough.'
'No,' I said. 'I want to hear!'

'It's  getting  to  be  your  bedtime,  Mikey,'  he  said,  ruffling  my  hair  
with  his  big,  hard  hand.  'I
just  want  to  tell  you  one  thing  more,  and  I  don't  think  you'll  
understand  it,  because  I'm  not
sure  I  understand  it  myself.  What  happened  that  night  at  the  Black  
Spot,  bad  as  it  was  .  .  .  I
don't  really  think  it  happened  because  we  was  black.  Not  even  
because  the  Spot  was  close
behind  West  Broadway,  where  the  rich  whites  in  Derry  lived  then  and  
still  live  today.  I  don't
think  that  the  Legion  of  White  Decency  happened  to  get  along  so  
well  here  because  they
hated   black   people   and   bums   more   in   Derry   than   they   did   
in   Portland   or   Lewiston  or
Brunswick.  It's  because  of  that  soil.  It  seems  that  bad  things,  
hurtful  things,  do  right  well  in
the  soil  of  this  town.  I've  thought  so  again  and  again  over  the  
years.  I  don't  know  why  it
should be . . . but it is.

'But  there  are  good  folks  here too, and there were good folks here then. 
When the funerals
were  held  afterward,  thousands  of  people  turned  out,  and  they  turned  
out  for  the  blacks  as
well  as  the  whites.  Businesses  closed  up  for  most  of  a  week.  The  
hospitals  treated  the  hurt
ones  free  of  charge.  There  were  food  baskets  and  letters  of  
condolence  that  were  honestly
meant.  And  there  were  helping  hands  held  out.  I  met  my  friend  Dewey 
 Conroy  during  that
time,  and  you  know  he's  just  as  white  as  vanilla  ice  cream,  but  I  
feel  like  he's  my  brother. I'd
die  for  Dewey  if  he  asked  me  to,  and  although  no  man  really  knows  
another  man's  heart,  I
think he'd die for me if it came to that.

'Anyway,  the  army  sent  away  those  of  us  that  were  left  after  that  
fire,  like  they  were
ashamed . . . and I guess they were. I ended up down at Fort Hood, and I stayed 
there for six
years.    I  met  your  mother  there,  and  we  were  married  in  Galveston,  
at  her  folks'  house.  But  ail
through  the  years  between,  Derry  never  escaped  my  mind.  And  after  
the  war,  I  brought  your
mom  back  here.  And  we  had  you.  And  here  we  are,  not  three  miles  
from  where  the  Black
Spot stood in 1930. And I think it's your bedtime, Mr Man.'

'I want to hear about the fire!' I yelled. 'Tell me about it, Daddy!'

And  he  looked  at  me  in  that  frowning  way  that  always  shut  me  up  . 
 .  .  maybe  because  he
didn't  look  that  way  often.  Mostly  he  was  a  smiling  man.  'That's  no 
 story  for  a  boy,'  he  said.
'Another time, Mikey. When we've both walked around a few more years.'

As  it  turned  out,  we  both  walked  around another four years before I 
heard the story of what
happened  at  the  Black  Spot  that  night,  and  by  then  my  father's  
walking  days  were  all  done.
He  told  me  from  the  hospital  bed  where  he  lay,  full  of  dope,  
dozing  in  and  out  of  reality  as
the cancer worked away inside of his intestines, eating him up.

February 26th, 1985

I  got  reading  over  what  I  had  written  last  in  this  notebook  and  
surprised  myself  by  bursting
into  tears  over  my  father,  who  has  now  been  dead  for  twenty-three 
years. I can remember my
grief  for  him  —  it  lasted  for  almost  two  years.  Then  when  I  
graduated  from  high  school  in
1965  and  my  mother  looked  at  me  and  said,  'How  proud  your  father  
would  have  been!,'  we
cried  in  each  other's  arms  and  I  thought  that  was  the  end,  that  we 
 had  finished  the  job  of
burying  him  with  those  late  tears.  But  who  knows  how  long  a  grief  
may  last?  Isn't  it  possible
that, even thirty or forty years after the death of a child or a brother or a 
sister, one may half-
waken,  thinking  of  that  person  with  that  same  lost  emptiness,  that  
feeling  of  places  which


may never be filled . . . perhaps not even in death?

He  left  the  army  in  1937  with  a  disability  pension.  By  that  year,  
my  father's  army  had
become  a  good  deal  more  warlike;  anyone  with  half  an  eye,  he  told  
me  once,  could  see  by
then  that  soon  all  the  guns  would  be  coming  out  of  storage  again.  
He  had  risen  to  the  rank  of
sergeant  in  the  interim,  and  he  had  lost  most  of  his  left  foot  
when  a  new  recruit  who  was  so
scared  he  was  almost  shitting  peach-pits pulled the  pin on a hand grenade 
and then dropped it
instead of throwing it. It rolled over to my father and exploded with a sound 
that was, he said,
like   a cough in the middle of the night.

A  lot  of  the  ordnance  those  long-ago  soldiers  had  to  train  with  was 
 either  defective  or  had

sat  so  long  in  almost  forgotten  supply  depots  that  it  was  impotent.  
They  had  bullets  that
wouldn't  fire  and  rifles  that  sometimes  exploded  in  their  hands  when  
the  bullets  did  fire.  The
navy  had  torpedoes  that  usually  didn't  go  where  they  were  aimed  and  
didn't  explode  when
they  did.  The  Army  Air  Corps  and  the  Navy  Air  Arm  had  planes  whose 
 wings  fell  off  if  they
landed  hard,  and  at  Pensacola  in  1939,  I  have  read,  a  supply  
officer  discovered  a  whole  fleet
of  government  trucks  that  wouldn't   run  because  cockroaches  had  eaten  
the  rubber  hoses  and
the fanbelts.

So  my  father's  life  was  saved  (including,  of  course,  the  part  of  
him  that  became  Your  Ob'dt
Servant   Michael   Hanlon)   by   a   combination   of   bureaucratic   
porkbarrelling   folderol   and
defective  equipment.  The  grenade  only  half-exploded  and  he  just  lost  
part  of  one  foot  instead
of everything from the breastbone on down.

Because  of  the  disability  money  he  was  able  to  marry  my  mother  a  
year  earlier  than  he  had
planned.  They  didn't  come  to  Derry  at  once;  they  moved  to  Houston,  
where  they  did  war
work  until  1945.  My  father  was  a  foreman  in  a  factory  that  made  
bomb-casings. My mother
was a Rosie the Riveter. But as he told me that night when I was eleven, the 
thought of Derry
'never  escaped  his  mind.'  And  now  I  wonder  if  that  blind  thing  
might  not  have  been  at  work
even then,  —  drawing  nun  back  so  I  could  take  my  place  in  that  
circle  in  the  Barrens  that
August  evening.  If  the  wheels  of  the  universe  are  in  true,  then  
good  always  compensates  for
evil — but good can be awful as well.

My  father  had  a  subscription  to  the  Derry  News.  He  kept  his  eye  on 
 the  ads  announcing
land  for  sale.  They  had  saved  up  a  good  bit  of  money.  At  last  he  
saw  a  farm  for  sale  that
looked like a good proposition . . . on  paper, at least. The two of them rode 
up from Texas on
a  Trailways  bus,  looked  at  it,  and  bought  it  the  same  day.  The  
First  Merchants  of  Penobscot
County issued my father a ten-year mortgage, and they settled down.

'We  had  some  problems  at  first,'  my  father  said  another  time.  'There 
 were  people  who
didn't  want  Negroes  in  the  neighborhood.  We  knew  it  was  going  to  be 
 that  way  —  I  hadn't
forgotten about the Black Spot  —  and  we  just  hunkered  down  to  wait  it  
out.  Kids  would  go
by  and  throw  rocks  or  beer  cans.  I  must  have  replaced  twenty  
windows  that  first  year.  And
some of them weren't just kids, either. One day when we got up, there was a 
swastika painted
on  the  side  of  the  chickenhouse  and  all  the  chickens  were  dead.  
Someone  had  poisoned  their
feed. Those were the last chickens I ever tried to keep.

'But  the  County  Sheriff   —  there  wasn't  any  police  chief  in  those  
days,  Derry  wasn't  quite
big  enough  for  such  a  thing —  got  to  work  on  the  matter  and  he  
worked  hard.  That's  what  I
mean,  Mikey,  when  I  say  there  is  good  here  as  well  as  bad.  It  
didn't  make  any  difference  to
that  man  Sullivan  that  rny  skin  was  brown  and  my  hair  was  kinky.  
He  come  out  half  a  dozen
times,  he  talked  to  people,  and  finally  he  found  out  who  done  it.  
And  who  do  you  think  it
was? I'll give you three guesses, and the first two don't count!'

'I don't know,' I said.

My  father  laughed  until  tears  spouted  out  of  his  eyes.  He  took  a  
big  white  handkerchief  out
of his pocket and wiped them away. 'Why, it was Butch Bowers, that's who! The  
father of the
kid you say is the biggest bully at your school. The father's a turd and the 
son's a little fart.'


There  are  kids  at  school  who  say  Henry's  father  is  crazy,'  I  told  
him.  I  think  I  was  in  the
fourth  grade  at  that  time  —  far  enough  along  to  have  had  my  can  
righteously  kicked  by
Henry  Bowers  more  than  once,  anyway  .  .  .  and  now  that  I  think  
about  it,  most  of  the
pejorative  terms  for  'black'  or  'Negro'  I've  ever  heard,  I  heard  
first  from  the  lips  of  Henry
Bowers, between grades one and four.

'Well,  I'll  tell  you,'  he  said,  'the  idea  that  Butch  Bowers  is  
crazy  might  not  be  far  wrong.
People  said  he  was  never  right  after  he  come  back  from  the  Pacific. 
 He  was  in  the  Marines
over  there.  Anyway,  the  Sheriff  took  him  into  custody  and  Butch  was  
hollering that it was a
put-up job and they were all just a bunch of nigger-lovers. Oh, he was gonna 
sue everybody. I
guess he had a list that would have stretched from here to Witcham Street. I 
doubt if he had a
single  pair  of  underdrawers  that  was  whole  in  the  seat,  but  he  was  
going  to  sue  me,  Sheriff
Sullivan, the Town of Derry, the County of Penobscot, and God alone knows who 
else.

'As  to  what  happened  next  .  .  .  well,  I  can't  swear  it's  true,  
but  this  is  how  I  heard  it  from

Dewey  Conroy.  Dewey  said  ht e  Sheriff  went  in  to  see  Butch  at  the  
jail  up  in  Bangor.  And

Sheriff  Sullivan  says,  "It's  time  for  you  to  shut  your  mouth  and  do 
 some  listening,  Butch.
That black guy, he don't want to press charges. He don't want to send you to 
Shawshank, he
just wants the worth of his chickens. He figures two hundred dollars would do 
her."

'Butch  tells  the  Sheriff  he  can  put  his  two  hundred  dollars  where  
the  sun  don't  shine,  and
Sheriff  Sullivan,  he  tells  Butch:  "They  got  a  lime  pit  down  at  the  
Shank,  Butch,  and  they tell
me  after  you've  been  workin  there  about  two  years,  your  tongue  goes  
as  green  as  a  lime
Popsicle. Now you pick. Two years peelin lime or two hundred dollars. What do 
you think?"

'"No jury in Maine will convict me," Butch says, "not for killing a nigger's 
chickens."

'"I know that," Sullivan says.

'"Then what the Christ are we chinnin about?" Butch asts him.

'"You  better  wake  up,  Butch.  They  won't  put  you  away  for  the  
chickens,  but  they  will  put
you away for the swastiker you painted on the door after you killed em."

'Well,  Dewey  said  Butch's  mouth  just  kind  of  dropped  open,  and  
Sullivan went away to let
him  think  about  it.  About  three  days  later  Butch  told  his  brother,  
the  one  that  froze  to  death
couple  of  years  after  while  out  hunting  drunk,  to  sell  his  new  
Mercury,  which  Butch  had
bought  with  his  muster-out  pay  and  was  mighty  sweet  on.  So  I  got  
my  two  hundred  dollars
and  Butch  swore  he  was  going  to  burn  me  out.  He  went  around  
telling  all  his  friends  that.  So
I  caught  up  with  him  one   afternoon.  He'd  bought  an  old  pre-war  
Ford  to  replace  the  Merc,
and  I  had  my  pick-up. I cut him off out on Witcham Street by the trainyards 
and got out with
my Winchester rifle.

'"Any  fires  out  my  way  and  you  got  one  bad  black  man  gunning  for  
you,  old  boss," I told
him.

'"You  can't  talk  to  me  that  way,  nigger,"  he  said,  and  he  was  damn 
 near  to  blubbering
between being mad and being scared. "You can't talk to no white man that way, 
not a jig like
you."

'Well,  I'd  had  enough  of  the  whole  thing,  Mikey.  And  I  knew  if  I  
didn't  scare  him  off  for
good  right  then  I'd  never  be  shed  of  him.  There  wasn't  nobody  
around.  I  reached  in  that  Ford
with  one  hand  and  caught  him  by  the  hair  of  the  head.  I  put  the  
stock  of  my  rifle  against  the
buckle  of  my  belt  and  got  the  muzzle  right  up  under  his  chin.  I  
said,  "The  next  time  you  call
me  a  nigger  or  a  jig,  your  brains  are  going  to  be  dripping  off  
the  domelight  of  your  car.  And
you  believe  me,  Butch:  any  fires  out  my  way  and  I'm  gunning  for  
you.  I  may  come  gunning
for your wife and your brat and your no-count brother as well. I have had 
enough."

'Then he  did  start  to  cry,  and  I  never  saw  an  uglier  sight  in  my  
life.  "Look  what  things  has
come  to  here,"  he  says,  "when  a  nih.  .  .  .  when  a  jih  .  .  .  
when  a  feller  can  put  a  gun  to  a
workingman's head in broad daylight by the side of the road."


'"Yeah,  the  world  must  be  going  to  a  camp-meeting  hell  when  
something  like  that  can
happen,"  I  agreed.  "But  that  don't  matter  now.  All  that  matters  now  
is,  do  we  have  an
understanding  here  or  do  you  want  to  see  if  you  can  learn  how  to  
breathe  through  your
forehead?"

'He allowed as how we had an understanding, and that was the last bit of 
trouble I ever had
with  Butch  Bowers,  except  for  maybe  when  your  dog  Mr  Chips  died,  
and  I've got no proof
that was Bowers's doing. Chippy might have just got a poison bait or something.

'Since  that  day  we've  been  pretty  much  left  alone  to  make  our  way,  
and  when  I  look  back
on  it,  there  ain't  much  I  regret.  We've  had  a  good  life  here,  and  
if  there  are  nights  when  I
dream  about  that  fire,  well,  there  isn't  nobody  that  can  live  a  
natural  life  without  having  a  few
bad dreams.'

February 28th, 1985

It's been days since I sat down to write the story of the fire at the Black 
Spot as my father told
it to me, and I haven't gotten to it yet. It's in  The  Lord  of  the Rings, I 
think, where one of the
characters says that 'way leads on to way'; that you could start at a path 
leading nowhere more
fantastic  than  from  your  own  front  steps  to  the  sidewalk, and  from  
there  you  could  go  .  .  .
well, anywhere at all. It's the same way with stories. One leads to the next, 
to the next, and to
the  next;  maybe  they  go  in  the  direction  you  wanted  to  go,  but  
maybe  they  don't.  Maybe  in
the end it's the voice that tells the stories more than the stories themselves 
that matters.

It's  his  voice  that  I  remember,  certainly:  my  father's  voice,  low  
and  slow,  how  he  would
chuckle sometimes or laugh outright. The pauses to light his pipe or to blow 
his nose or to go
and get  a can of Narragansett (Nasty Gansett, he called it) from the icebox. 
That voice, which
is  for  me  somehow  the  voice  of  all  voices,  the  voice  of  all  years, 
 the  ultimate  voice  of  this
place  —  one  that's  in  none  of  the  Ives  interviews  nor  in  any  of  
the  poor  histories of this place

. . . nor on any of ray own tapes.

My father's voice.

Now  it's  ten  o'clock,  the  library  closed  an  hour  ago,  and  a  proper  
old  jeezer  is  starting  to
crank  up  outside.  I  can  hear  tiny  spicules  of  sleet  striking  the  
windows  in  here  and  in  the
glassed-in  corridor  which  leads  to  the  Children's  Library.  I  can  hear 
 other  sounds,  too  —
stealthy  creaks  and  bumps  outside  the  circle  of  light  where  I  sit,  
writing  on  the  lined  yellow
pages of a legal pad. Just the sounds of an old building settling, I tell 
myself . . . but I wonder.
As I wonder if somewhere out in this storm there is a clown selling balloons 
tonight.

Well  .  .  .  never  mind.  I  think  I've  finally  found  my  way  to  my  
father's  final  story.  I  heard  it
in his hospital room no more than six weeks before he died.

I  went  to  see  him  with  my  mother  every  afternoon  after  school,  and  
alone  every  evening.
My  mother  had  to  stay  home  and  do  the  chores  then,  but  she  
insisted  that  I  go.  I  rode  my
bike. She wouldn't let me hook rides, not even four years after the murders had 
ended.

That was a hard six weeks for a boy who was only fifteen. I loved my father, 
but I came to
hate  those  evening  visits  —  watching  him  shrink  and  shrivel,  watching 
 the  pain-lines  spread
and deepen on his face.  Sometimes he would cry, although he tried not to. And 
going home it
would be getting dark and I would think back to the summer of '58, and I'd be 
afraid to look
behind me because the clown might be there . . . or the werewolf . . . or Ben's 
mummy . . . or
my bird. But I was mostly afraid that no matter what shape It took, It would 
have my father's
cancer-raddled  face.  So  I  would  pedal  as  fast  as  I  could  no  matter  
how  hard  my  heart
thundered  in  my  chest  and  come  in  flushed  and  sweaty-haired  and  out  
of  breath  and  my
mother  would  say,  'Why  do  you  want  to  ride  so  fast,  Mikey?  You'll  
make  yourself  sick'  And


I'd say, 'I wanted to get back in time to help you with the chores,' and she'd 
give me a hug and
a kiss and tell me I was a good boy.

As  time  went  on,  it  got  so  I  could  hardly  think  of  things  to  talk 
 about  with  him  anymore.
Riding  into  town,  I'd  rack  my  brain  for  subjects  of  conversation,  
dreading  the  moment  when
both  of  us  would  run  out  of  things  to  say.  His  dying  scared  me  
and  enraged  me,  but  it
embarrassed  me,  too;  it  seemed  to  me  then  and  it  seems  to  me  now  
that  when  a  man  or
woman  goes  it  should  be  a  quick  thing.  The  cancer  was  doing  more  
than  killing  him.  It  was
degrading him, demeaning him.

We  never  spoke  of  the  cancer,  and  in  some  of  those  silences I 
thought that we  must  speak

of  it,  that  there  would  be  nothing  else  and  we  would  be  stuck  with 
 it  like  kids  caught  without
a  place  to  sit  in  a  game  of  musical  chairs  when  the  piano  stops,  
and  I  would  become  almost
frantic,  trying  to  think  of  something  —  anything!   —  to  say  so  that 
 we  would  not  have  to
acknowledge  the  thing  which  was  now  destroying  my  daddy,  who  had  
once  taken  Butch
Bowers     by  the  hair  and  jammed  his  rifle  into  the  shelf  of  his  
chin  and  demanded  of  Butch  to
be   left  alone.  We  would  be  forced  to  speak  of  it,  and  if  we  were 
 I  would  cry.  I  wouldn't  be
able  to  help  it.  And  at  fifteen,  I  think  the  thought  of  crying  in  
front  of  my  father  scared  and
distressed me more than anything else.

It  was  during  one  of  those  interminable,  scary  pauses  that  I  asked  
him  again  about  the  fire
at  the  Black  Spot.  They'd  filled  him  full  of  dope  that  evening  
because  the  pain  was  very  bad,
and  he  had  been  drifting  in  and  out  of  consciousness,  sometimes  
speaking  clearly,  sometimes
speaking  in  that  exotic  language  I  think  of  as  Sleepmud.  Sometimes  I 
 knew  he  was  talking  to
me,  but  at  other  times  he  seemed  to  have  me  confused  with  his  
brother  Phil.  I  asked  hull
about the Black Spot for no real reason; it had just jumped into my mind and I 
seized on it.

His eyes sharpened and he smiled a little. 'You ain't never forgot that, have 
you, Mikey?'

'No, sir,' I said, and although I hadn't thought about it in three years or 
better, I added what
he sometimes said: 'It hasn't ever escaped my mind.'

'Well,  I'll  tell  you now,'  he  said.  'Fifteen  is  old  enough,  I  guess, 
 and  your  mother  ain't  here
to  stop  me.  Besides,  you  ought  to  know.  I  think  something  like  it  
could  only  have  happened
in  Derry,  and  you  need  to  know  that,  too.  So  you  can  beware.  The  
conditions  for  such  things
have always seemed right here. You're careful, aren't you, Mikey?

'Yes, sir,' I said.

'Good,'  he  said,  and  his  head  dropped  back  on  his  pillow.  'That's  
good.'  I  thought  he  was
going to drift off again — his eyes had slipped closed — but instead he began 
to talk.

'When I was at the army base here in '29 and '30,' he said, 'there was an NCO 
Club up there

on  the  hill,  where  Derry  Community  College  is  now.  It  was  right  
behind  the  PX,  where  you
used to be able to get a pack of Lucky Strike Greens for seven cents. The NCO 
Club was only
a big old quonset hut, but they had fixed it up nice inside  —  carpet on the 
floor, booths along
the walls, a jukebox  —  and you could get soft drinks on the weekend . . .  if 
 you were white,
that  was.  They  would  have  bands  in  most  Saturday  nights,  and  it  was 
 quite  a  place  to  go.  It
was  just  pop  over  the  bar,  it  being  Prohibition,  but  we  heard  you  
could  get  stronger  stuff  if
you wanted it . . . and if you had a little green star on your army card. That 
was like a secret
sign  they  had.  Home -brew  beer  mostly,  but  on  weekends  you  could  
sometimes  get  stronger
stuff. If you were white.

'Us Company E boys weren't allowed any place near it, of course. So we went on 
the town
if  we  had  a  pass  in  the  evening.  In  those  days  Derry was still 
something of a logging town and
there  were  eight  or  ten  bars,  most  of  em  down  in  a  part  of  town  
they  called  Hell's  Half-Acre.
They  wasn't  speakeasies;  that  was  too  grand  a  name  for  em.  Wasn't  
anybody  in  em  spoke
very   easy,   anyhow.   They   was   what  folks  called  "blind  pigs,"  and  
that  was  about  right,
because  most  of  the  customers  acted  like  pigs  when  they  were  in  
there  and  they  was  about
blind  when  they  turned  em  out.  The  Sheriff  knew  and  the  cops  knew,  
but  those  places  roared


all  night  long,  same  as  they'd  done  since  the  logging  days  in  the  
1890s.  I  suppose  palms  got
greased,  but  maybe  not  as  many  or  with  so  much  as  you  might  think; 
 in  Derry  people  have  a
way  of  looking  the  odier  way.  Some  served  hard  stuff  as  well  as  
beer,  and  by  all  accounts  I
ever heard,  the  stuff  you  could  get  in  town  was  ten  times  as  good  
as  the  rotgut  whiskey  and
bathtub  gin  you  could  get  at  the  white  boys'  NCO  on  Friday  and  
Saturday  nights.  The
downtown  hooch  came  over  the  border  from  Canada  in  pulp  trucks,  and  
most  of  them  bottles
had  what  the  labels  said.  The  good  stuff  was  expensive,  but  there  
was  plenty  of  furnace-oil
too,  and  it  might  hang  you  over  but  it  didn't  kill  you,  and  if  
you did go blind, it didn't last. On
any  given  night  you'd  have  to  duck  your  head  when  the  bottles  came  
flying  by.  There  was
Nan's,  the  Paradise,  Wally's  Spa,  the  Silver  Dollar,  and  one  bar,  
the  Powderhorn,  where  you
could  sometimes  get  a  whore.  Oh,  you  could  pick  up  a  woman  at  any  
pig,  you  didn't  even
have  to  work  at  it  that  hard  —  there  was  a  lot  of them wanted to 
find out  if  a slice off n the
rye  loaf  was  any  different  —  but  to  kids  like  me  and  Trevor  Dawson 
 and  Carl  Roone,  my
friends in those days, the thought of buying a whore  — a  white whore  — that 
was something
you had to sit down and consider.'

As  I've  told  you,  he  was  heavily  doped  that  night.  I  don't  believe  
he  would  have  said  any  of
that stuff — not to his fifteen-year-old son — if he had not been.

'Well,  it  wasn't  very  long  before  a  representative  of  the  Town  
Council  showed  up,  wanting
to   see   Major   Fuller.   He   said   he   wanted   to   talk   about   
"some   problems   between   the
townspeople   and   the   enlisted   men"   and   "concerns   of   the   
electorate"   and   "questions   of
propriety,"  but  what  he  really  wanted  Fuller  to  know  was  as  clear  
as  a  windowpane.  They
didn't  want  no  army  niggers  in  their  pigs,  botherin  white  women  and  
drinkin  illegal  hooch —
at a bar where only white men was supposed to be standin and drinkin illegal 
hooch.

'All  of  which  was  a  laugh,  all  right.  The  flower  of  white  womanhood 
 they  were  so  worried
about was mostly a bunch of barbags, and as far as getting in the way of the 
men . . . ! Well,
all   I  can  say  is  that  I  never  saw  a  member  of  the  Derry  Town  
Council  down  in  the  Silver
Dollar,  or  in  the  Powderhorn.  The  men  who  drank  in  those  dives  were 
 pulp-cutters in those
big  red-and-black-checked  lumberman's  jackets,  scars  and  scabs  all  over 
 their  hands,  some  of
em  missing  eyes  or  fingers,  all  of  em  missing  most  of  then-   teeth, 
 all  of  em  smellin  like
woodchips  and  sawdust  and  sap.  They  wore  green  flannel  pants  and 
green gumrubber  boots
and  tracked  snow  across  the  floor  until  it  was  black  with  it.  They  
smelled  big,  Mikey,  and
they  walked  big,  and  they  talked  big.  They  were  big.  I  was  in  
Wally's  Spa  one  night  when  I
saw  a  fella  split  his  shirt  right  down  one  arm  while  he  was  
armrassling  this  other  fella.  It
didn't just  rip  —  you  probably  think  that's  what  I  mean,  but  it  
ain't.  Arm  of  that  man's  shirt
damn  near  exploded  —  sort  of  blew   off  his  arm,  in  rags.  And  
everybody  cheered  and
applauded   and   somebody   slapped   me   on   the   back   and   said,   
"That's   what   you   call   an
armrassler's fart, blackface."

'What  I'm  telling  you  is  that  if  the  men  who  used  those  blind  pigs 
 on  Friday  and  Saturday
nights  when  they  come  out  of  the  woods  to  drink  whiskey  and  fuck  
women  instead  of
knotholes  greased  up  with  lard,  if  those  men  hadn't  wanted  us  there, 
 they  would  have  thrown
us    out on our asses. But the fact of it was, Mikey, they didn't seem to give 
much of a toot one
way or the other.

'One of em took me aside one  night — he was six foot, which was damn big for 
those days,
and  he  was  dead  drunk,  and  he  smelled  as  high  as  a  basket  of  
month-old  peaches.  If  he'd
stepped  out  of  his  clothes,  I  think  they  would  have  stood  up  alone. 
 He  looks  at  me  and  says,
"Mister, I gonna ast you sumpin, me. Are you be a Negro?"

'"That's right," I says.

"'Commen'  ça va!"  he  says  in  the  Saint  John  Valley  French  that  
sounds  almost  like  Cajun
talk,  and  grins  so  big  I  saw  all  four  of  his  teeth.  "I  knew  you  
was,  me!  Hey!  I  seen  one  in a


book  once!  Had  the  same   — " and he couldn't think how to say what was on 
his mind, so he
reaches out and flaps at my mouth.

'"Big lips," I says.

'"Yeah,  yeah!"  he  says,  laughin  like  a  kid.  "Beeg  leeps!  Épais  
lèvres!  Beeg  leeps!  Gonna
buy you a beer, me!"

'"Buy away," I says, not wanting to get on his bad side.

'He laughed at that too and clapped me on the back  — almost knocking me on my 
face  —
and  pushed  his  way  up  to  the  plankwood  bar  where  there  must  have  
been  seventy  men  and
maybe fifteen  women  lined  up.  "I  need  two  beers  fore  I  tear  this  
dump  apart!"  he  yells  at  the
bartender, who was a big lug with a broken nose named Romeo Dupree. "One for me 
and one
pour  I'homme  avec  les   épais  lèvres!"  And they all laughed like hell at 
that, but not  in a mean
way, Mikey.

'So  he  gets  the  beers  and  gives  me  mine  and  he  says,  "What's  your  
name?  I  don't  want  to
call you Beeg Leeps, me. Don't sound good."

'"William Hanlon," I says.

'"Well, here's to you, Weelyum Anlon," he says.

'"No,  here's  you,"  I  says.  "You're  the  first  white  man  who  ever  
bought  me  a  drink."  Which
was true.

'So we drank those beers down and then we had two more and he says, "You sure 
you're a

Negro? Except for them épais leeps, you look just like a white man with brown 
skin to me."'

My  father  got  to  laughing  at  this,  and  so  did  I.  He  laughed  so  
hard  his  stomach started to
hurt  him,  and  he  held  it,  grimacing,  his  eyes  turned  up,  his  upper  
plate  biting  down  on  his
lower lip.

'You want me to ring for the nurse, Daddy?' I asked, alarmed.

'No  .  .  .  no.  I'm  goan  be  okay.  The  worst  thing  of  this,  Mikey,  
is  that  you  can't  even  laugh
anymore when you feel like it. Which is damn seldom.'

He  fell  silent  for  a  few  moments,  and  I  realize  now  that  that  was  
the  only  time we came
close  to  talking  about  what  was  killing  him.  Maybe  it  would  have  
been  better   —  better  for
both of us — if we had done more.

He took a sip of water and then went on.

'Anyway,  it  wasn't  the  few  women  who  travelled  the  pigs,  and  it  
wasn't  the  lumberjacks
that  made  up  their  main  custom  who  wanted  us  out.  It  was  those  
five  old  men  on  the  Town
Council  who  were  really  offended,  them  and  the  dozen  or  so  men  that 
 stood  behind  them  —
Derry's  old  line,  you  know.  None  of  them  had  ever  stepped  a  foot  
inside of the Paradise or
Wally's  Spa,  they  did  their  boozing  at  the  country  club  which  then  
stood  over  on  Derry
Heights,  but  they  wanted  to  make  sure  that  none  of  those  barbags  or 
 peavey-swingers got
polluted by the blacks of Company E.

'So  Major  Fuller  says,  "I  never  wanted  them  here  in  the  first  
place.  I  keep  thinking  it's  an
oversight and they'll get sent back down south or maybe to New Jersey."

'"That's not my problem," this old fart tells him. Mueller, I think his name 
was — '

'Sally  Mueller's  father?'  I  asked,  startled.  Sally  Mueller  was  in  the 
 same  high-school class
with me.

My  father  grinned  a  sour,  crooked  little  grin.  'No,  this  would  have  
been  her  uncle.  Sally
Mueller's  dad  was  off  in  college  somewhere  then.  But  if  he'd  been  
in  Derry, he would have
been  there,  I  guess,  standing  with  his  brother.  And  in  case  you're  
wondering  how  true  this
part  of  the  story  is,  all  I  can  tell  you  is  that  the  conversation  
was  repeated  to  me  by  Trevor
Dawson, who was swabbing the floors over there in officers' country that day 
and heard it all.

'"Where  the  government  sends  the  black  boys  is  your  problem,  not  
mine,"  Mueller  tells
Major  Fuller.  "My  problem  is  where  you're  letting  them  go  on  Friday  
and  Saturday  nights.  If


they  go  on  whooping  it  up  downtown,  there's  going  to  be  trouble.  
We've  got  the  Legion  in
this town, you know."

'"Well, but I am in a bit of a tight here, Mr Mueller," he says. "I can't let 
them drink over at
the  NCO  Club.  Not  only  is  it  against  the  regulations  for  the  
Negroes  to  drink with the whites,
they  couldn't  anyway.  It's  an  NCO  club,  don't  you  see?  Every  one  of 
 those  black  boys  is  a
bucky-tail private.

'"That's   not   my   problem   either.   I   simply   trust   you   will   
take   care   of   the   matter.

Responsibility accompanies rank." And off he goes.

'Well,  Fuller  solved  the  problem.  The  Derry  Army  Base  was  a  damn  
big  patch  of  land  in
those  days,  although  there  wasn't  a  hell  of  a  lot  on  it.  Better  
than  a  hundred  acres,  all  told.
Going  north,  it  ended  right  behind  West  Broadway,  where  a  sort  of  
greenbelt  was  planted.
Where Memorial Park is now, that was where the Black Spot stood.

'It  was  just  an  old  requisition  shed  in  early  1930,  when  all  of  
this  happened,  but  Major
Fuller  mustered  in  Company  E  and  told  us  it  was  going  to  be  "our"  
club.  Acted  like  he  was
Daddy  Warbucks  or  something,  and  maybe  he  even  felt  that  way,  giving 
 a  bunch  of  black
privates their own place, even if it was nothing but a shed. Then he added, 
like it was nothing,
that the pigs downtown were off-limits to us.

'There was a lot of bitterness about it, but what could we do? We had no real 
power. It was
this  young  fellow,  a  Pfc.  named  Dick  Hallorann  who  was  a  mess-cook,  
who  suggested  that
maybe we could fix it up pretty nice if we really tried.

'So  we  did.  We  really  tried.  And  we  made  out  pretty  well,  all  
things  considered.  The  first
time  a  bunch  of  us  went  in  there  to  look  it  over,  we  were  pretty  
depressed.  It  was  dark  and
smelly,  full  of  old  tools  and  boxes  of  papers  that  had  gone  moldy.  
There  was  only  two  little
windows  and  no  lectricity.  The  floor  was  dirt.  Carl  Roone  laughed  in 
 a  kind  of  bitter  way,  I
remember  that,  and  said,  "The  ole  Maje,  he  a  real  prince,  ain't  he? 
 Give  us  our  own  club.
Sho!"

'And  George  Brannock,  who  was  also  killed  in  the  fire  that  fall, he 
said: "Yeah, it's a hell of
a black spot, all right." And the name just stuck.

'Hallorann got us going, though . . . Hallorann and Carl and me. I guess God 
will forgive us

for what we did, though — cause He knows we had no idea how it would turn out.

'After  awhile  the  rest  of  the  fellows  pitched  in.  With  most  of  
Derry  off-limits, there wasn't
much  else  we  could  do.  We  hammered  and  nailed  and  cleaned.  Trev  
Dawson  was  a  pretty
good jackleg carpenter, and he showed us how to cut some more windows along the 
side, and
damned  if  Alan  Snopes  didn't  come  up  with  panes  of  glass  for  them  
that  were  different  colors

— sort of a cross between carnival glass and the sort you see in church 
windows.

'"Where'd  you  get  this?"  I  asked  him.  Alan  was  the  oldest  of  us;  
he  was  about  forty-two,
old enough so that most of us called him Pop Snopes.

'He  stuck  a  Camel  in  his  mouth  and  tipped  me  a  wink.  "Midnight  
Requisitions,"  he  says,
and would say no more.

'So  the  place  come  along  pretty  good,  and  by  the  middle  of  the  
summer  we  was  using  it.
Trev  Dawson  and  some  of  the  others  had  partitioned  off  the  back  
quarter  of  the  building  and
got  a  little  kitchen  set  up  in  there,  not  much  more  than  a  grill  
and  a  couple  of  deep-fryers, so
that you could get a hamburg and some french fries, if you wanted. There was a 
bar down one
side, but it was just meant for sodas and drinks like Virgin Marys  — shit, we 
knew our place.
Hadn't we been taught it? If we wanted to drink hard, we'd do it in the dark.

'The  floor  was  still  dirt,  but  we  kept  it  oiled  down  nice.  Trev  
and  Pop  Snopes  ran  in  a
lectric  line  —  more  Midnight  Requisitions,  I  imagine.  By  July,  you  
could  go  in  there  any
Saturday night and sit down and have a cola and a hamburger  —  or a slaw-dog. 
It was nice. It
never really got finished  —  we  was  still  working  on  it  when  the  fire  
burned  it  down.  It  got  to
be  a  kind  of  hobby  .  .  .  or  a  way  of  thumbing  our  noses  at  
Fuller  and  Mueller  and  the  Town


Council.  But  I  guess  we  knew  it  was  ours  when  Ev  McCaslin  and  I  
put  up  a sign one Friday
night that said  THE  BLACK  SPOT,  and just below that,  COMPANY  E  AND  
GUESTS. Like we were
exclusive, you know!

'It  got  looking  nice  enough  that  the  white  boys  started  to  grumble  
about  it,  and  next  thing
you  know,  the  white  boys'  NCO  was  looking  finer  than  ever.  They  was 
 adding  on  a  special
lounge  and  a  little  cafeteria.  It  was  like  they  wanted  to  race.  But 
 that  was  one  race  that  we
didn't want to run.'

My dad smiled at me from his hospital bed.

'We  were  young,  except  for  Snopesy,  but  we  weren't  entirely  foolish.  
We  knew  that  the
white  boys  let  you  race  against  them,  but  if  it  starts  to  look  
like  you  are  getting  ahead,  why,
somebody  just  breaks  your  legs  so  you  can't  run  as  fast.  We  had  
what  we  wanted,  and  that
was enough. But then . . . something happened.' He fell silent, frowning.

'What was that, Daddy?'

'We  found  out  that  we  had  a  pretty  decent  jazz-band  among  us,'  he  
said  slowly.  'Martin
Devereaux,  who  was  a  corporal,  played  drums.  Ace  Stevenson  played  
cornet.  Pop  Snopes
played  a  pretty  decent  barrelhouse  piano.  He  wasn't  great,  but  he  
wasn't  no  slouch,  either.
There  was  another  fellow  who  played  clarinet,  and  George  Brannock  
played  the  saxophone.
There   were   others   of   us   who   sat   in   from   time   to   time,   
playing   guitar   or   harmonica  or
juiceharp or even just a comb with waxed paper over it.

'This  didn't  all  happen  at  once,  you  understand,  but  by  the  end  of  
that  August,  there  was  a
pretty  hot  little  Dixieland  combo  playing  Friday  and  Saturday  nights  
at  the  Black  Spot.  They
got  better  and  better  as  the  fall  drew  on,  and  while  they  were  
never  great  —  I don't want to
give you that idea  —  they played in a way that was different . . . hotter 
somehow . . . it . . . '
He waved his skinny hand above the bedclothes.

'They played bodacious,' I suggested, grinning.

'That's  right!'  he  exclaimed,  grinning  back.  'You  got  it!  They  played 
 bodacious  Dixieland.
And the next thing you know, people from town started to show up at  our club. 
Even some of
the  white  soldiers  from  the  base.  It  got  so  the  place  was  getting  
crowded  a  right  smart  every
weekend.   That   didn't   happen   all   at   once,   either.   At   first   
those   white   faces   looked   like
sprinkles of salt in a pepper-pot, but more and more of them turned up as time 
went on.

'When  those  white  people  showed  up,  that's  when  we  forgot  to  be  
careful.  They  were
bringin  in  their  own  booze  in  brown  bags,  most  of  it  the  finest  
high-tension  stuff  there  is  —
made  the  stuff  you  could  get  in  the  pigs  downtown  look  like  soda  
pop.  Country-club booze is
what  I  mean,  Mikey.  Rich  people's  booze.  Chivas.  Glenfiddich.  The  
kind  of  champagne  they
served  to  first-class  passengers  on  ocean  liners.  "Champers,"  some  of  
em  called  it,  same  as
we  used  to  call  ugly-minded  mules  back  home.  We  should  have  found  a 
 way  to  stop  it, but
we didn't know how. They was town! Hell, they was white!

'And,  like  I  said,  we  were  young  and  proud  of  what  we'd  done.  And  
we  underestimated
how  bad  things  might  get.  We  all  knew  that  Mueller  and  his  friends  
must  have  known  what
was  going  on,  but  I  don't  think  any  of  us  realized  that  it  was  
drivin  em  crazy  —  and I mean
what I say:  crazy.  There  they  were in their grand old Victorian houses on 
West Broadway not
a  quarter  of  a  mile  away  from  where   we  were,  listening  to  things  
like  "Aunt  Hagar's  Blues"
and  "Diggin  My  Potatoes."  That  was  bad.  Knowing  that  their  young  
people  were  there  too,
whooping  it  up  right  cheek  by  jowl  with  the  blacks,  that  must  have  
been  ever  so  much  worse.
Because  it  wasn't  just  the  lumberjacks  and  the  barbags  that  were  
turning  up  as  September
came into October. It got to be kind of a thing in town. Young folks would come 
to drink and
to  dance  to  that  no-name  jazz-band  until  one  in  the  morning  came  
and  shut  us  down.  They
didn't  just  come  from  Derry,  either.  They  come  from  Bangor  and  
Newport  and  Haven  and
Cleaves  Mills  and  Old  Town  and  all  the  little  burgs  around  these  
parts.  You  could  see
fraternity   boys   from   the   University   of   Maine   at   Orono   cutting 
  capers   with   their   sorority


girlfriends,  and  when  the  band  learned  how  to  play  a  ragtime  version 
 of'  'The  Maine  Stein
Song,"  they  just  about  ripped  the  roof  off.  Of  course,  it  was  an  
enlisted-men's  club  —
technically,  at  least  —  and  off-limits  to  civilians  who  didn't  have  
an  invitation.  But  in  fact,
Mikey,  we  just  opened  the  door  at  seven  and  let  her  stand  open  
until  one.  By  the  middle  of
October  it  got  so  that  any  time  you  went  out  on  the  dancefloor  you 
 were  standing  hip  to  hip
with  six  other  people.  There  wasn't  no  room  to  dance,  so  you  had  
to  just  sort  of  stand  there
and  wiggle  .  .  .  but  if  anyone  minded,  I  never  heard  him  let  on.  
By  midnight  it  was  like  an
empty freight-car rocking and reeling on an express run.'

He paused, took another drink of water, and then went on. His eyes were bright 
now.

'Well,  well.  Fuller  would  have  put an  end  to  it  sooner  or  later.  If 
 it  had  been  sooner,  a  lot
less people would have died. All you had to do was send in MPs and have them 
confiscate all
the  bottles  of  liquor  that  people  had  brought  in  with  them.  That  
would  have  been  good
enough —  just  what  he  wanted,  in  fact.  It  would  have  shut  us  down  
good  and  proper.  There
would  have  been  court-martials  and  the  stockade  in  Rye  for  some  of  
us  and  transfers  for  all
the rest. But Fuller was slow. I think he was afraid of the same thing some of 
us was afraid  of

—  that  some  of  the  townies  would  be  mad.  Mueller  hadn't  been  back  
to  see  him,  and  I  think
Major  Fuller  must  have  been  scared  to  go  downtown  and  see  Mueller.  
He  talked  big,  Fuller
did, but he had all the spine of a jellyfish.

'So  instead  of  the  thing  ending  in  some  put-up  way  that  would  have  
at  least  left  all  those
that  burned  up  that  night  still  alive,  the  Legion  of  Decency  ended  
it.  They  came  in  their  white
sheets early that November and cooked themselves a barbecue.'

He  fell  silent  again,  not  sipping  at  his  water  this  time,  only  
looking  moodily  into  the  far

corner  of  his  room  while  outside  a  bell  dinged  softly  somewhere  and  
a  nurse  passed  the  open
doorway,  the  soles  of  her  shoes  squeaking  on  the  linoleum.  I  could  
hear  a  TV  someplace,  a
radio  someplace  else.  I  remember  that  I  could  hear  the  wind  blowing  
outside,  snuffling  up  the
side  of  the  building.  And  although  it  was  August,  the  wind  made  a  
cold  sound.  It  knew
nothing  of  Cain's Hundred  on  the  television,  or  the  Four  Seasons  
singing  'Walk  Like  a Man'
on the radio.

'Some  of  them  came  through  that  greenbelt  between  the  base  and  West  
Broadway,'  he

resumed  at  last.  'They  must  have  met  at  someone's  house  over  there,  
maybe  in  the  basement,
to get their sheets on and to make the torches that they used.

'I've  heard  that  others  came  right  onto  the  base  by  Ridgeline  Road,  
which  was  the  main
way  onto  the  base  back  then.  I  heard  —  I won't say where  —  that they 
came in a brand-new
Packard  automobile,  dressed  in  their  white  sheets  with  their  white  
goblin-hats  on  their  laps
and  torches  on  the  floor.  The  torches  were  Louisville  Sluggers  with  
big  hunks  of  burlap
snugged down over the fat parts with red rubber gaskets, the kind ladies use 
when they put up
preserves.  There  was  a  booth  where  Ridgeline  Road  branched  off  
Witcham  Road  and  came
onto the base, and the OD passed that Packard right along.

'It  was  Saturday  night  and  the  joint  was  jumping,  going  round  and  
round.  There  might  have
been  two  hundred  people  there,  maybe  three.  And  here  came  these  
white  men, six or eight in
their  bottle-green Packard, and more coining through the trees between the 
base and the fancy
houses  on  West  Broadway.  They  wasn't  young,  not  many  of  them,  and  
sometimes  I  wonder
how many cases of angina and bleeding ulcers there were the next day. I hope 
there was a lot.
Those dirty sneaking murdering bastards.

'The  Packard  parked  on  the  hill  and  flashed  its  lights  twice.  About  
four  men  got  out  of  it
and  joined  the  rest.  Some  had  those  two-gallon tins of gasoline that you 
could buy  at service
stations  back  in  those  days.  All  of  them  had  torches.  One  of  em  
stayed  behind  the  wheel  of
that Packard. Mueller had a Packard, you know. Yes he did. A green one.

They  got  together  at  the  back  of  the  Black  Spot  and  doused  their  
torches  with gas. Maybe

they  only  meant  to  scare  us.  I've  heard  it  the  other  way,  but  I've 
 heard  it  that  way,  too.  I'd


rather  believe  that's  how  they  meant  it,  because  I  ain't  got  feeling 
 mean  enough  even  yet  to
want to believe the worst.

'It  could  have  been  that  the  gas  dripped  down  to  the  handles  of  
some  of  those  torches  and
when  they  lit  them,  why,  those  holding  them  panicked  and  threw  them  
any  whichway  just  to
get  rid  of  them.  Whatever,  that  black  November  night  was  suddenly  
blazing  with  torches.
Some  was  holding  em  up  and  waving  em  around,  little  flaming  pieces  
of  burlap  falling  off  n
the tops of em. Some of them were laughing. But like I say, some of the others 
up and threw
em  through  the  back  windows,  into  what  was  our  kitchen.  The  place  
was  burning  merry  hell
in a minute and a half.

'The  men  outside,  they  were  all  wearing  their  peaky  white  hoods  by  
then.  Some  of  them
were  chanting  "Come  out,  niggers!  Come  out,  niggers!  Come  out,  
niggers!"  Maybe  some  of
them  were  chanting  to  scare  us,  but  I  like  to  believe most  of  em  
were  trying  to  warn  us  —
same way as I like to believe that maybe those torches going into the kitchen 
the way they did
was an accident.

'Either   way,   it   didn't   much   matter.   The   band   was   playing   
louder'n   a   factory   whistle.
Everybody  was  whooping  it  up  and  having  a  good  time.  Nobody  inside  
knew  anything  was
wrong until Gerry McCrew, who was playing assistant cook that night, opened the 
door to the
kitchen  and  damn  near  got  blowtorched.  Flames  shot  out  ten  feet  and  
burned  his  messjacket
right off. Burned most of his hair off as well.

'I  was  sitting  about  halfway  down  the  east  wall  with  Trev  Dawson  
and  Dick  Hallorann
when  it  happened,  and  at  first  I  had  an  idea  the  gas  stove  had  
exploded.  I'd  no  more  than  got
on my feet when I was knocked down by people headed for the door. About two 
dozen of em
went  marchin  right  up  my  back,  an  I  guess  that  was  the  only  time  
during  the  whole  thing
when  I  really  felt  scared.  I  could  hear  people  screamin  and  tellin  
each  other  they  had  to  get
out,  the  place  was  on  fire.  But  every  time  I  tried  to  get  up,  
someone  footed  me  right  back
down again. Someone landed his big shoe square on the back of my head and I saw 
stars. My
nose  mashed  on  that  oiled  floor  and  I  snuffled  up  dirt  and  began  
to  cough  and  sneeze  at  the
same time. Someone else stepped on the small of my back. I felt a lady's high 
heel slam down
between  the  cheeks  of  my  butt,  and  son,  I  never  want  another  
half-ass enema like that one. If
the  seat of my khakis had ripped, I believe I'd be bleedin down there to this 
day.

'It  sounds  funny  now,  but  I  damn  near  died  in  that  stampede.  I  was 
 whopped,  whapped,
stomped,  walked  on,  and  kicked   in  so  many  places  I  couldn't  walk  
'tall  the  next  day.  I  was
screaming and none of those people topside heard me or paid any mind.

'It  was  Trev  saved  me.  I  seen  this  big  brown  hand  in  front  of  me  
and  I  grabbed  it  like  a
drownin  man  grabs  a  life  preserver.  I  grabbed  and  he  hauled  and  up  
I  came.  Someone's  foot
got me in the side of my neck right here — '

He massaged that area where the jaw turns up toward the ear, and I nodded.

'  —  and  it  hurt  so  bad  that  I  guess  I  blacked  out  for  a  minute.  
But  I  never  let  go  of  Trev's
hand,  and  he  never  let  go  of  mine.  I  got  to  my  feet,  finally,  
just  as  the  wall  we'd  put  up
between  the  kitchen  and  the  hall  fell  over.  It  made  a  noise  like   
—  floomp  —  the  noise  a
puddle  of  gasoline  makes  when  you  light  it.  I  saw  it  go  over  in  a 
 big  bundle  of  sparks,  and  I
saw  the  people  running  to  get  out  of  its  way  as  it  fell.  Some  of  
em  made  it.  Some  didn't. One
of  our  fellas  —  I  think  it  might  have  been  Hort  Sartoris  —  was  
buried  under  it,  and  for  just
one  second  I  seen  his  hand  underneath  all  those  blazing  coals,  
openin  and  closin.  There  was  a
white  girl,  surely  no  more  than  twenty,  and  the  back  of  her  dress  
went  up.  She  was  with  a
college  boy  and  I  heard  her  screamin  at  him,  beggin  him  to  help  
her.  He  took  just  about  two
swipes at it and then ran away with the others. She stood there screamin as her 
dress went up
on her.


It  was  like  hell  out  where  the kitchen had been. The flames was so bright 
you couldn't look
at  them.  The  heat  was  bakin  hot,  Mikey,  roastin  hot.  You  could  feel 
 your  skin  going  shiny.
You could feel the hairs in your nose gettin crispy.

'"We gotta break outta here!" Trev yells, and starts to drag me along the wall. 
"Come on!"

Then  Dick  Hallorann  catches  hold  of  him.  He  couldn't  have  been  no  
more  than  nineteen,
and his eyes was as big as bil'ard balls, but he kept his head  better than we 
did. He saved our
lives.  "Not  that  way!"  he yells.  "This  way!"  And  he  pointed  back  
toward  the  bandstand  .  .  .
toward the fire, you know.

'"You're  crazy!"  Trevor  screamed  back.  He  had  a  big  bull  voice,  but  
you  could  barely  hear

him  over  the  thunder  of  the  fire  and  the  screaming  people.  "Die  if 
you  want  to,  but  me  and
Willy are gettin' out!"

'He  still  had  me  by  the  hand  and  he  started  to  haul  me  toward  the 
 door  again,  although
there were so many people around it by then you couldn't see it at all. I would 
have gone with
him.  I  was  so  shell-shocked I didn't know what end was up. All I knew was 
that I didn't want
to be baked like a human turkey.

'Dick grabbed Trev by the hair of the head just as hard as he could, and when 
Trev turned
back,  Dick  slapped  his  face.  I  remember  seeing  Trev's  head bounce  
off.the  wall  and  thinking
Dick  had  gone  crazy.  Then  he  was  hollerin  in  Trev's  face,  "You  go  
that  way  and  you  goan
die! They jammed up against that door, nigger!"

'"You  don't  know  that!"  Trev  screamed  back  at  him,  and  then  there  
was  this  loud  BANG\
like  a  firecracker,  only  what  it  was,  it  was  the  heat  exploding  
Marty  Devereaux's  bass  drum.
The fire was runnin along the beams overhead and the oil on the floor was 
catchin.

'"I know it!" Dick screams back. "I know it!"

'He  grabbed  my  other  hand, and for a minute there I felt like the rope in a 
tug-o-war game.
Then Trev took a good look at the door and went Dick's way. Dick got us down to 
a window
and  grabbed  a  chair  to  bust  it  out,  but  before  he  could  swing  it,  
the  heat  blew  it  out  for  him.
Then  he  grabbed  Trev  Dawson  by  the  back  of  his  pants  and  hauled  
him  up.  "Climb!"  he
shouts. "Climb, motherfucker!" And Trev went, head up and tail over the 
dashboard.

'He boosted me next, and I went up. I grabbed the sides of the window and 
hauled. I had a

good  crop  of  blisters  all  over  my  palms  the  next  day:  that  wood  
was  already  smokin.  I  come
out headfirst, and if Trev hadn't grabbed me I mighta broke my neck.

'We  turned  back  around,  and  it  was  like  something  from  the  worst  
nightmare  you  ever  had,
Mikey.  That  window  was  just  a  yellow,  blazin  square  of  light.  Flames 
 was  shoo  tin  up
through that tin roof in a dozen places. We could hear people screamin inside.

'I  saw  two  brown  hands  waving  around  in  front  of  the  fire  —  Dick's 
 hands.  Trev  Dawson
made  me  a  step  with  his  own  hands  and  I  reached  through  that  
window  and  grabbed  Dick.
When  I  took  his  weight  my  gut  went  against  the  side  of  the  
building,  and  it  was  like  having
your belly against a stove that's just starting to get real good and hot. 
Dick's face came up and
for a few seconds I didn't think we was going to be able to get him. He'd taken 
a right smart
of  smoke,  and  he  was  close  to  passing  out.  His  lips  had  cracked  
open.  The  back  of  his  shirt
was smoldering.

'And  then  I  damn  near  let  go,  because  I  could  smell  the  people  
burning  inside.  I've  heard

people  say  that  smell  is  like  barbecuing  pork  ribs,  but  it  ain't  
like  that.  It's  more  like  what
happens  sometimes  after  they  geld  hosses.  They  build  a  big  fire  and  
throw  all  that  shit  into  it
and  when  the  fire  gets  hot  enough  you  can  hear  them  hossballs  
poppin  like  chestnuts,  and
that's  what  people  smell  like  when  they  start  to  cook  right  inside  
their  clo'es.  I  could  smell
that  and  I  knew  I  couldn't  take  it  for  long  so  I  gave  one  more  
great  big  yank, and out came
Dick. He lost one of his shoes.


'I tumbled off Trev's hands and went down. Dick come down on top of me, and I'm 
here to
tell you that nigger's head was  hard.  I lost most of my breath and just laid 
there on the dirt for
a few seconds, rolling around and holding my bellyguts.

'Presently  I  was  able  to  get  to  my  knees,  then  to  my  feet.  And  I  
seen  these  shapes  running
off  toward  the  greenbelt.  At  first  I  thought  they  were  ghosts,  and  
then  I  seen  shoes.  By  then  it
was  so  bright  around  the  Black  Spot  it  was  like  daylight.  I  seen  
shoes  and  understood  it  was
men wearin sheets. One of them had fallen a little bit behind the others and I 
saw . . . "

He trailed off, licking his lips.

'What did you see, Daddy?' I asked.

'Never you mind,' he said. 'Give me my water, Mikey.'

I  did.  He  drank  most  of  it  and  then  got  coughing.  A  passing  nurse  
looked  in  and  said:  'Do
you need anything, Mr Hanlon?'

'New set of 'testines,' my dad said. 'You got any handy, Rhoda?'

She  smiled  a  nervous,  doubtful  smile  and  passed  on.  My  dad  handed  
the  glass  to  me  and  I
put  it  back  on  his  table.  'It's  longer  tellin  than  it  is  
rememberin,'  he  said.  'You  goan  fill  that
glass up for me before you leave?'

'Sure, Daddy.'

'This story goan give you nightmares, Mikey?'

I  opened  my  mouth  to  lie,  and  then  thought  better  of  it.  And  I  
think  now  that  if  I  had  lied,
he would have stopped right there. He was far gone by then, but maybe not that 
far gone.

'I guess so,' I said.

That's  not  such  a  bad  thing,'  he  said  to  me.  'In  nightmares  we  can 
 think  the  worst.  That's
what they're for, I guess.'

He reached out his hand and I took it and we held hands while he finished.

'I  looked  around  just  in  time  to  see  Trev  and  Dick  goin  around  the 
 front  of  the building,
and  I  chased  after  them,  still  trying  to  catch  m'wind.  There  was  
maybe  forty  or  fifty  people
out  there,  some  of  them  cryin,  some  of  them  pukin,  some  of  them  
screamin,  some  of  them
doing  all  three  things  at  once,  it  seemed  like.  Others  were  layin  
on  the  grass,  fainted  dead
away  with  the  smoke.  The  door  was  shut,  and  we  heard  people  
screamin  on  the  other  side,
screamin to let them out, out for the love of Jesus, they were burning up.

'It  was  the  only  door,  except  for  the  one  that  went  out  through  
the  kitchen  to  where  the
garbage cans and things were, you see. To go in you pushed the door open. To go 
out you had
to pull it.

'Some  people  had  gotten  out,  and  then  they  started  to  jam  up  at  
that  door  and  push.  The
door  got  slammed  shut.  The  ones  in  the  back  kept  pushin  forward  to  
get  away  from  the  fire,
and  everybody  got  jammed  up.  The  ones  right  up  front  were  squashed.  
Wasn't  no  way  they
could  get  that  door  open  against  the  weight  of  all  those  behind.  So 
 there  they  were,  trapped,
and the fire raged.

'It was Trev Dawson that made it so it was only eighty or so that died instead 
of a hundred
or maybe two hundred, and what he got for his pains wasn't a medal but two 
years in the Rye
stockade.  See,  right  about  then  this  big  old  cargo  truck  pulled  up,  
and  who  should  be  behind
the  wheel  but  my  old  friend  Sergeant  Wilson,  the  fella  who  owned  
all  the  holes  there  on  the
base.

'He  gets  out  and  starts  shoutin  orders  that  didn't  make  much  sense  
and  which  people
couldn't  hear  anyway.  Trev  grabbed  my  arm and we run over to him. I'd 
lost all track of Dick
Hallorann by then and didn't even see him until the next day.

'Sergeant, I have to use your truck!' Trev yells in his face.

'"Get  out  of  my  way,  nigger,"  Wilson  says,  and  pushes  him  down.  
Then  he  starts yelling all
that  confused  shit  again.  Wasn't  nobody  paying  any  attention  to  him,  
and  he  didn't  go  on  for
long anyway, because Trevor Dawson popped up like a jack-in-the-box and decked 
him.


'Trev  could  hit  damned  hard,  and  almost  any  other  man  would  have  
stayed  down,  but  that
cracker  had  a  hard  head.  He  got  up,  blood  pouring  out  of  his  mouth 
 and  nose,  and  he  said,
"I'm  goan  kill  you  for  that."  Well,  Trev  hit  him  in  the  belly  just 
 as  hard  as  he  could,  and  when
he  doubled  over  I  put  my  hands  together and pounded the back of his neck 
just as hard as 7
could.  It  was  a  cowardly  thing  to  do,  hitting  a  man  from  behind  
like  that,  but  desperate  times
call  for  desperate  measures.  And  I  would  be  lyin,  Mikey,  if  I  
didn't  tell  you  that  hitting  that
poormouth sonofabitch didn't give me a bit of pleasure.

'Down  he  went,  just  like  a  steer  hit  with  a  poleaxe.  Trev  run  to  
the  truck,  fired  it  up,  and
drove  it  around  so  it  was  facin  the  front  of  the  Black  Spot,  but  
to  the  left  of  the  door.  He
th'owed it into first, popped the clutch on that cocksucker, and here he come!

'"Look out there!" I shouted at that crowd of people standing around. 'Ware 
that truck!"

'They  scattered  like  quail,  and  for  a  wonder  Trev  didn't  hit  none  
of  em.  He  hit  the  side  of
the  building  going  maybe  thirty,  and  cracked  his  face  a  good  one  on 
 the  steerin  wheel  of  the
truck.  I  seen  the  blood  fly  from  his  nose  when  he  shook  his  head  
to  clear  it.  He  punched  out
reverse,  backed  up  fifty  yards,  and  come  down  on  her  again.  WHAM!  
The Black Spot wasn't
nothing but corrugated tin, and that second hit did her. The whole side of that 
oven fell in and
the  flames  come  roarin  out.  How  anything  could  have  still  been  alive 
 in  there  I  don't  know,
but  there  was.  People  are  a  lot  tougher  than  you'd  believe, Mikey,  
and  if  you  don't  believe  it,
just take a look at me, slidin off the skin of the world by my fingernails. 
That place was like a
smelting  furnace,  it  was  a  hell  of  flames  and  smoke,  but  people  
came  running  out  in  a  regular
torrent.  There  were  so  many  that  Trev  didn't  even  dare  back  the  
truck  up  again  for  fear  he
would run over some of them. So he got out and ran back to me, leaving it where 
it was.

'We  stood  there,  watching  it  end.  It  hadn't  been  five  minutes  all  
told,  but  xxxit  felt like
forever.  The  last  dozen  or  so  that  made  it  out  were  on  fire.  
People  grabbed  em  and  started  to
roll  em  around  on  the  ground,  trying  to  put  em  out.  Looking  in,  we 
 could  see  other  people
trying to come, and we knew they wasn't never going to make it.

Trev  grabbed  my  hand  and  I  grabbed  him  back  twice  as  hard.  We  
stood  there  holding
hands  just  like  you  and  me  are  doing  now,  Mikey,  him  with  his  nose 
 broke  and  blood  running
down  his  face  and  his  eyes  puffing  shut,  and  we  watched  them  
people.   They  were  the  real
ghosts  we  saw  that  night,  nothing  but  shimmers  shaped  like  men  and  
women  in  that  fire,
walking  toward  the  opening  Trev  had  bashed  with  Sergeant  Wilson's  
truck.  Some  of  em  had
their  arms  held  out,  like  they  expected  someone  to  save  them.  The  
others  just  walked,  but
they  didn't  seem  to  get  nowhere.  Their  clo'es  were  blazin.  Their  
faces  were  runnin.  And  one
after another they just toppled over and you didn't see them no more.

'The last one was a woman. Her dress had burned off her and there she was in 
her slip. She
was  burnin  like  a  candle.  She  seemed  to  look  right  at  me  at  the  
end,  and  I  seen  her  eyelids
was on fire.

'When  she  fell  down  it  was  over.  The  whole  place  went  up  in  a  
pillar  of  fire.  By  the  time
the  base  firetrucks  and  two  more  from  the  Main  Street  fire  station  
got  there,  it  was  already
burning itself out. That was the fire at the Black Spot, Mikey.'

He drank the last of his water and handed me the glass to fill at the drinking 
fountain in the
hall. 'Goan piss the bed tonight I guess, Mikey.'

I  kissed  his  cheek  and  then  went  out  into  the  hall  to  fill  his  
glass.  When  I  returned,  he  was
drifting   away   again,   his   eyes   glassy   and   contemplative.   When   
I   put   the   glass   on   the
nighttable,  he  mumbled  a  thank-you  I  could  barely  understand.  I  
looked  at  the  Westclox  on
his table and saw it was almost eight. Time for me to go home.

I  leaned  over  to  kiss  him  goodbye  .  .  .  and  instead  heard  myself  
whisper,  'What  did  you
see?'


His  eyes,  which  were  now  slipping  shut,  barely  turned  toward  the  
sound  of  my  voice. He
might  have  known  it  was  me,  or  he  might  have  believed  he  was  
hearing  the  voice  of  his  own
thoughts. 'Hunk?'

'The thing you saw,' I whispered. I didn't want to hear, but I had to hear. I 
was both hot and
cold,  my  eyes  burning,  my  hands  freezing.  But  I  had  to  hear.  As  I  
suppose  Lot's  wife  had  to
turn back and look at the destruction of Sodom.

'Twas  a  bird,'  he  said.  'Right  over  the  last  of  those  runnin  men.  
A  hawk,  maybe.  What  they
call  a  kestrel.  But  it  was  big.  Never  told  no  one.  Would  have  been 
locked up. That bird was
maybe  sixty  feet  from  wingtip  to  wingtip.  It  was  the  size  of  a  
Japanese  Zero.  But  I  seen  .  .  .
seen its eyes . . . and I think . . . it seen me . . . '

His head slipped over to the side, toward the window, where the dark was 
coming.

'It  swooped  down  and  grabbed  that  last  man  up.  Got  him  right  by  
the  sheet, it did xxxand I
heard that bird's wings . . . The sound was like fire . . . and it hovered . . 
. and I thought, Birds
can't hover . . . but this one could, because . because . . . '

He fell silent.

'Why, Daddy?' I whispered. 'Why could it hover?'
'It didn't hover,' he said.

I  sat  there  in  silence,  thinking  he  had  gone  to  sleep  for  sure  
this  time.  I  had  never  been  so
afraid  in  my  life  .  .  .  because  four  years  before,  I  had  seen  
that  bird.  Somehow,  in  some
unimaginable  way,  I  had  nearly  forgotten  that  nightmare.  It  was  my  
father  who  brought  it
back.

'It  didn't  hover,'  he  said.  'It  floated.  It  floated.  There  were  big  
bunches  of  balloons  tied  to

each wing, and it floated.'
My father went to sleep.

March 1st, 1985

It's come again. I know that now. I'll wait, but in my heart I know it. I'm not 
sure I can stand
it. As a kid I was able to deal with it, but it's different with kids. In some 
fundamental way it's
different.

I wrote all of that last night in a kind of frenzy — not that I could have gone 
home anyway.
Derry  has  been  blanketed  in  a  thick  glaze  of  ice,  and  although  the  
sun  is  out  this  morning,
nothing is moving.

I  wrote  until  long  after  three  this  morning,  pushing  the  pen  faster  
and  faster,  trying  to  get  it
all  out.  I  had  forgotten  about  seeing  the  giant  bird  when  I  was  
eleven.  It  was  my  father's  story
that  brought  it  back  .  .  .  and  I  never  forgot  it  again.  Not  any  
of  it.  In  a  way,  I  suppose it was
his final gift to me. A terrible gift, you would say, but wonderful in its way.

I  slept  right  where  I  was,  my  head  in  my  arms,  my  notebook  and  
pen  on  the  table  in  front
of  me.  I  woke  up  this  morning  with  a  numb  ass  and  an  aching  back, 
 but  feeling  free,
somehow . . . purged of that old story.

And then I saw that I had had company in the night, as I slept.

The   tracks,   drying   to   faint   muddy   impressions,   led   from   the   
front   door   of   the   library
(which I locked; I always lock it) to the desk where I slept.

There were no tracks leading away.

Whatever   it   was,   it   came   to   me   in   the   night,   left   its   
talisman   .   .   .   and   then   simply
disappeared.

Tied  to  my  reading  lamp  was  a  single  balloon.  Filled  with  helium,  
it  floated  in  a  morning
sunray which slanted in through one of the high windows.


On  it  was  a  picture  of  my  face,  the  eyes  gone,  blood  running  down  
from  the  ragged
sockets, a scream distorting the mouth on the balloon's thin and bulging rubber 
skin.

I   looked   at   it   and   I   screamed.  The  scream  echoed  through  the  
library,  echoing  back,
vibrating from the circular iron staircase leading to the stacks.

The balloon burst with a bang.


'The descent

made up of despairs

and without accomplishment
realizes a new awakening:

which is a reversal
of despair.

For what we cannot accomplish, what
is denied to love,

what we have lost in the anticipation —
a descent follows,

endless and indestructible.'

— William Carlos Williams,

Paterson

'Don't it make you wanta go home, now?
Don't it make you wanta go home?

All God's children get weary when they roam,
Don't it make you wanta go home?'

— Joe South


C H A P T E R  1 0

The Reunion

1

Bill Denbrough Gets a Cab

The  telephone  was  ringing,  bringing  him  up  and  out  of  a  sleep  too  
deep  for  dreams.  He
groped  for  it  without  opening  his  eyes,  without  coming  more  than  
halfway  awake.  If  it  had
stopped  ringing  just  then  he  would  have  slipped  back  down  into  sleep 
 without  a  hitch;  he
would  have  done ti as  simply  and  easily  as  he  had  once  slipped  down  
the  snow-covered hills
in  McCarron  Park  on  his  Flexible  Flyer.  You  ran  with  the  sled,  
threw  yourself  onto  it,  and
down  you  went  —  seemingly  at  the  speed  of  sound.  You  couldn't  do  
that  as  a  grownup;  it
racked the hell out of your balls.

His  fingers  walked  over  the  telephone's  dial,  slipped  off,  climbed  it 
 again.  He  had  a  dim
premonition  that  it  would  be  Mike  Hanlon,  Mike  Hanlon  calling  from  
Derry,  telling  him  he
had  to  come  back,  telling  him  he  had  to  remember, telling him they had 
made a promise, Stan
Uris had cut their palms with a sliver of Coke bottle and they had made a 
promise —

Except all of that had already happened.

He  had  gotten  in  late  yesterday  afternoon  — just before 6  P.M., 
actually. He supposed that,
if  he  had  been  the  last  call  on  Mike's  list,  all  of  them  must  
have  gotten  in  at  varying  times;
some  might  even  have  spent  most  of  the  day  here.  He  himself  had  
seen  none  of  them,  felt  no
urge to see any of them. He had simply checked in, gone up to his room, ordered 
a meal from
room  service  which  he  found  he  could  not  eat  once  it  was  laid  out  
before  him,  and  then  had
tumbled into bed and slept dreamlessly until now.

Bill  cracked  one  eye  open  and  fumbled  for  the  telephone's  handset.  
It fell off onto the table

and  he  groped  for  it,  opening  his  other  eye.  He  felt  totally  blank  
inside  his  head,  totally
unplugged, running on batteries.

He  finally  managed  to  scoop  up  the  phone.  He  got  up  on  one  elbow  
and  put  it  against  his
ear. 'Hello?'

'Bill?' It  was  Mike Hanlon's voice  —  he'd  had  at  least  that  much  
right.  Last week he didn't

remember  Mike  at  all,  and  now  a  single  word  was  enough  to  identify  
him.  It  was  rather
marvellous . . . but in an ominous way.

'Yeah, Mike.'

'Woke you up, huh?'

'Yeah,  you  did.  That's  okay.'  On  the  wall  above  the  TV  was  an  
abysmal  painting  of
lobstermen   in   yellow   slickers   and   rainhats   pulling   lobster   
traps.   Looking   at   it,   Bill
remembered  where  he  was:  the  Derry  Town  House  on  Upper  Main  Street.  
Half  a  mile farther
up and across the street was Bassey Park . . . the Kissing Bridge . . . the 
Canal. 'What time is
it, Mike?'

'Quarter of ten.'
'What day?'

'The 30th.' Mike sounded a little amused.

'Yeah. 'Kay.'

'I've arranged a little reunio n,' Mike said. He sounded diffident now.
'Yeah?' Bill swung his legs out of bed. They all came?'

'All  but  Stan  Uris,'  Mike  said.  Now  there  was  something  in  his  
voice  that  Bill  couldn't  read.
'Bev was the last one. She got in late last evening.'


'Why do you say the last one, Mike? Stan might show up today.'
'Bill, Stan's dead.'

'What? How? Did his plane — '

'Nothing  like  that,'  Mike  said.  'Look,  if  it's  all  the  same  to  you, 
 I  think  it  ought  to  wait  until
we get together. It would be better if I could tell all of you at the same 
time.'

'It has to do with this?'

'Yes, I think so.' Mike paused briefly. 'I'm sure it does.'

Bill  felt  the  familiar  weight  of  dread  settle  around  his  heart  again 
—  was  it  something  you
could  get  used to  so  quickly,  then?  Or  had  it  been  something  he  had 
 carried  all  along,  simply
unfelt and unthought-of, like the inevitable fact of his own death?

He    reached    for    his    cigarettes,    lit    one,    and    blew    out 
   the    match    with    the    first
drag.

'None of them got together, yesterday?'
'No — I don't believe so.'

'And you haven't seen any of us yet?'
'No — just talked to you on the phone.'
'Okay,' he said. 'Where's the reunion?'

'You remember where the old Ironworks used to be?
'Pasture Road, sure.'

'You're  behind  the  times,  old  chum.  That's  Mall  Road  these  days.  
We've  got  the  third-
biggest  shopping  mall  in  the  state  out  there.  Forty-eight  Different  
Merchants  Under  One  Roof
for Your Shopping Convenience.'

'Sounds really A-A-American, all right.'
'Bill?'

'What?'

'You all right?'

'Yes.'  But  his  heart  was  beating  too  fast,  the  tip  of  his  cigarette 
 jittering  a tiny bit. He had
stuttered. Mike had heard it.

There  was  a  moment  of  silence  and  then  Mike  said,  'Just  out  past  
the  mall,  there's  a

restaurant  called  Jade  of  the  Orient.  They  have  private  rooms  for 
parties. I arranged for one of
them yesterday. We can have it the whole afternoon, if we want it.'

'You think this might take that long?'
'I just don't know.'

'A cab will know how to get there?'

'Sure.'

'All  right,'  Bill  said.  He  wrote  the  name  of  the  restaurant  down  on 
 the  pad by the phone.
'Why there?'

'Because it's new, I guess,' Mike said slowly. 'It seemed like . . . I don't 
know . . . '
'Neutral ground?' Bill suggested.

'Yes. I guess that's it.'
'Food any good?'

'I don't know,' Mike said. 'How's your appetite?'

Bill chuffed out smoke and half-laughed, half-coughed. 'It ain't so good, ole  
pal.'
'Yeah,' Mike said. 'I hear you.'

'Noon?'

'More like one, I guess. We'll let Beverly catch a few more z's.'
Bill snuffed the cigarette. 'She married?'

Mike hesitated again. 'We'll catch up on everything,' he said.

'Just  like  when  you  go  back  to  your  high-school reunion  ten  years  
later,  huh?'  Bill  said.
'You get to see who got fat, who got bald, who got k-kids.'


'I wish it was like that,' Mike said.
'Yeah. Me too, Mikey. Me too.'

He hung up the phone, took a long shower, and ordered a breakfast that he 
didn't want and
which he only picked at. No; his appetite was really not much good at all.

Bill  dialed  the  Big  Yellow  Cab  Company  and  asked  to  be  picked  up  
at  quarter  of  one,
thinking  that  fifteen  minutes  would  be  plenty  of  time  to  get  him  
out  to  Pasture  Road  (he
found  himself  totally  unable  to  think  of  it  as  Mall  Road,  even when 
he actually saw the mall),
but he had underestimated the lunch-hour traffic -flow . . . and how much Derry 
had grown.

In 1958 it had been a big town, not much more. There  were  maybe  thirty 
thousand people

inside  the  Derry  incorporated  city  limits  and  maybe  another  seven  
thousand  beyond  that  in
the surrounding burgs.

Now it had become a city  —  a very small city by London or New York        
standards, but
doing  just  fine  by  Maine  standards,  where  Portland,  the  state's  
largest,  could  boast  barely
three hundred thousand.

As the cab moved slowly down Main Street  (we're over the Canal now,  Bill 
thought;  can't
see  it,  but  it's  down  there,  running  in  the  dark)  and then turned up 
Center, his first thought
was    predictable    enough:    how    much    had    changed.    But    the   
 predictable    thought    was
accompanied  by  a  deep  dismay  that  he  never  would  have  expected.  He  
remembered  his
childhood here as a fearful, nervous time . . . not only because of  the summer 
of '58, when the
seven  of them had faced the terror, but because of George's death, the deep 
dream his parents
seemed  to  have  fallen  into  following  that  death,  the  constant  ragging 
 about  his  stutter,  Bowers
and Huggins and Criss constantly on the prod for them after the rockfight in 
the Barrens

(Bowers and Huggins and Criss, oh my! Bowers and Huggins and Criss, oh my!)

and  just  a  feeling  that  Derry  was  cold,  that  Derry  was  hard,  that  
Derry  didn't  much  give  a
shit  if  any  of  them  lived  or  died,  and  certainly  not  if  they  
triumphed  over  Pennywise  the
Clown.  Derry  folk  had  lived  with  Pennywise  in  all  his  guises  for  a  
long  time  .  .  .  and  maybe,
in  some  mad  way,  they  had  even  come  to  understand  him.  To  like  
him,  need  him.  Love  him?
Maybe. Yes, maybe that too.

So why this dismay?

Perhaps  only  because  it  seemed  such  dull  change,  somehow.  Or  perhaps  
because  Derry
seemed to have lost its essential face for him.

The  Bijou  Theater  was  gone,  replaced  with  a  parking  lot  (BY  PERMIT  
ONLY,  the  sign over
the  ramp  announced;  VIOLATORS  SUBJECT  TO  TOW).  The Shoeboat and 
Bailley's Lunch, which
had  stood  next  to  it,  were  also  gone.  They  had  been  replaced  by  a  
branch  of  the  Northern
National  Bank.  A  digital  readout  jutted  from  the  front  of  the  bland  
cinderblock  structure,
showing  the  time  and  the  temperature  —  the  latter  in  both  degrees  
Fahrenheit  and  degrees
Celsius.  The  Center  Street  Drug,  lair  of  Mr  Keene  and  the  place  
where  Bill  had  gotten  Eddie
his  asthma  medicine  that  day,  was  also  gone.  Richard's  Alley  had  
become  some  strange
hybrid  called  a  'mini-mall.'  Looking  inside  as  the  cab  idled  at  a  
stoplight,  Bill  could  see  a
record   shop,   a   natural-foods   store,   and   a   toys-and-games   shop   
which   was   featuring   a
clearance sale on ALL DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS SUPPLIES.

The  cab  pulled  forward  with  a  jerk.  'Gonna  take  awhile,'  the  driver  
said.  'I  wish  all  these
goddam banks would stagger their lunch-hours. Pardon my French if you're a 
religious man.'

'That's  all  right,'  Bill  said.  It  was  overcast  outside,  and  now  a  
few  splatters  of  rain  hit  the

cab's  windshield.  The  radio  muttered  about  an  escaped  mental  patient  
from  somewhere  who
was  supposed  to  be  very  dangerous,  and  then  began  muttering  about  
the  Red  Sox  who
weren't.  Showers  early,  then  clearing.  When  Barry  Manilow  began  
moaning  about  Mandy,
who  came  and  who  gave  without  taking,  the  cabbie  snapped  the  radio  
off.  Bill  asked,  'When
did they go up?'

'What? The banks?'


'Uh-huh.'

'Oh,  late  sixties,  early  seb'nies,  most  of  em,'  the  cabbie  said.  He  
was  a  big man with a thick
neck.   He   wore   a   red-and-black-checked   hunter's   jacket.   A   
fluorescent-orange   cap   was
jammed  down  squarely  on  his  head.  It  was  smudged  with  engine-oil.  
'They  got  this  urban-
renewal  money.  Reb  'nue  Sharin,  they call  it.  So  how  they  shared it  
was  rip  down  everythin.
And  the  banks  come  in.  I  guess  that  was  all  that  could  afford  to  
come  in.  Hell  of  a  note,  ain't
it?  Urban  renewal,  says  they.  Shit  for  dinner,  says  I.  Pardon  my  
French  if  you're  a  religious
man.  There  was  a  lot  of  talk  about  how  they  was  gonna  revitalize  
the  downtown.  Ayup,  they
revitalized  it  just  fine.  Tore  down  most  the  old  stores  and  put  up  
a  lot  of  banks  and  parking
lots.  And  you  know  you  still  can't  find  a  fucking  slot  to  park  
your  car  in.  Ought  to  string  the
whole  City  Council  up  by  their  cocks.  Except  for  that  Polock  woman  
that's  on  it.  String  her
up  by  her  tits.  On  second  thought,  it  don't  seem  like  she's  got  
any.  Flat  as  a  fuckin  board.
Pardon my French if you're a religious man.'

'I am,' Bill said, grinning.

'Then  get  outta  my  cab  and  go  to  fucking  church,'  the  cabbie  said,  
and  they  both  burst  out
laughing.

'You lived here long?' Bill asked.

'My  whole  life.  Born  in  Derry  Home  Hospital,  and  they'll  bury  my  
fuckin  remains  out  in
Mount Hope Cemetery.'

'Good deal,' Bill said.

'Yeah,  right,'  the  cabbie  said.  He  hawked,  rolled  down  his  window,  
and  spat  an  extremely
large   yellow-green   lunger   into   the   rainy   air.   His   attitude,   
contradictory   but   somehow
attractive  —  almost  piquant   —  was  one  of  glum  good  cheer.  'Guy  who 
 catches  that  won't
have   to buy no fuckin chewing gum for a week. Pardon my French if you're a 
religious man.'

'It  hasn't  all  changed,'  Bill  said.  The  depressing  promenade  of  banks 
 and  parking  lots  was
slipping  behind  them  as  they  climbed  Center  Street.  Over  the  hill  
and  past  the  First  National,
they began to pick up some speed. 'The Aladdin's still there.'

'Yeah,' the cabbie conceded. 'But just barely. Suckers tried to tear that down, 
too.'

'For  another  bank?'  Bill  asked,  a  pan  of  him  amused  to  find  that  
another  part  of  him  stood
aghast  at  the  idea.  He  couldn't  believe  that  anyone  in  his  right  
mind  would  want  to  tear  down
that   stately   pleasure   dome   with   its   glittering   glass   
chandelier,   its   sweeping   right-and-left
staircases  which  spiraled  up  to  the  balcony,  and  its  mammoth  curtain, 
 which  did  not  simply
pull  apart  when  the  show  started  but  which  instead  rose  in  magical  
folds  and  tucks  and
gathers,  all  underlit  in  fabulous  shades  of  red  and  blue  and  yellow  
and  green  while  pullies  off
stage ratcheted and groaned.  Not the Aladdin,  that shocked part of him cried 
out.  How could
they ever even think of tearing down the Aladdin for a BANK?

'Oh,  ayup,  a  bank,'  the  cabbie  said.  'You're  fucking-A,  pardon  my  
French  if  you're  a
religious  man.  It  was  the  First  Merchants  of  Penobscot  County  had  
its  eye  on  the  'laddin.
Wanted  to  pull  it  down  and  put  up  what  they  called  a  "complete  
banking  mall."  Got  all  the
papers  from  the  City  Council,  and  the  Aladdin  was  condemned.  Then  a  
bunch  of  folks
formed a  committee —  folks  that  had  lived  here  a  long  time  —  and  
they  petitioned,  and  they
marched,  and  they  hollered,  and  finally  they  had  a  public  City  
Council  meeting  about  it,  and
Hanlon blew those suckers out.' The cabbie sounded extremely satisfied.

'Hanlon?' Bill asked, startled. 'Mike Hanlon?'

'Ayup,'   the   cabbie   said.   He   twisted   around   briefly   to   look   
at   Bill,   revealing   a   round,
chapped  face  and  horn-rimmed  glasses  with  old  specks  of  white  paint  
on  the  bows.  'Librarian.
Black fella. You know him?'

'I  did,'  Bill  said,  remembering  how  he  had  met  Mike,  back  in  July  
1958.  It  had  been
Bowers and Huggins and Criss again . . . of course. Bowers and Huggins and 
Criss

(oh my)


at  every  turn,  playing  their  own  part,  unwitting  visegrips  driving  
the  seven of them together

— tight, tighter, tightest. 'We played together when we were kids. Before I 
moved away.'
'Well, there you go,' the cabbie said. 'It's a small fucking world, pardon my — 
'

' — French if you're a religious man,' Bill finished with him.

'There  you  go,'  the  cabbie  repeated  comfortably,  and  they  rode  in  
silence  for  awhile  before
he said, 'It's changed a lot, Derry has, but yeah, a lot of it's still here. 
The Town House, where
I  picked  you  up.  The  Standpipe  in  Memorial  Park.  You  remember  that  
place,  mister?  When
we were kids, we used to think that place was haunted.'

'I remember it,' Bill said.

'Look, there's the hospital. You recognize it?'

They  were  passing  the  Derry  Home  Hospital  on  the  right  now.  Behind  
it,  the  Penobscot
flowed  toward  its  meeting-place  with  the  Kenduskeag.  Under  the  rainy  
spring  sky,  the  river
was  dull  pewter.  The  hospital  that  Bill  remembered  —  a  white  
woodframe  building  with  two
wings,  three  stories  high  —  was  still  there,  but  now  it  was  
surrounded,  dwarfed,  by  a  whole
complex  of  buildings,  maybe  a  dozen  in  all.  He  could  see  a  
parking-lot  off  to  the  left,  and
what looked like better than five hundred cars parked there.

'My God, that's not a hospital, that's a fucking college campus!' Bill excla 
imed.

The  cab-driver  cackled.  'Not  bein  a  religious  man,  I'll  pardon  your  
French.  Yeah,  it's
almost  as  big  as  the  Eastern  Maine  up  in  Bangor  now.  They  got  
radiation  labs  and  a  therapy
center  and  six  hundred  rooms  and  their  own  laundry  and  God  knows  
what  else.  The  old
hospital's still there, but it's all administration now.'

Bill  felt  a  queer  doubling  sensation  in  his  mind,  the  sort  of  
sensation  he  remembered

getting  the  first  time  he  watched  a  3-D  movie.  Trying  to  bring  
together  two  images  that  didn't
quite  jibe.  You  could  fool  your  eyes  and  your  brain  into  doing  that 
 trick,  he  remembered,  but
you were apt to end up with a whopper of a headache . . . and he could feel his 
own headache
coming  on  now.  New  Derry,  fine.  But  the  old  Derry  was  still  here,   
like  the  wooden  Home
Hospital  building.  The  old  Derry  was  mostly  buried  under  all  the  new 
 construction  .  .  .  but
your eye was somehow dragged helplessly back to look at it . . . to look for 
it.

'The trainyard's probably gone, isn't it?' Bill asked.

The  cabbie  laughed  again,  delighted.  'For  someone  who  moved  away  when 
he  was  just  a
kid,  you  got  a  good  memory,  mister.'  Bill  thought: You  should  have  
met  me  last  week,  my
French-speaking friend.  'It's  all  still  out  there,  but  it's  nothing  
but  ruins  and  rusty tracks now.
The  freights  don't  even  stop  no  more.  Fella  wanted  to  buy  the  land  
and  put  up  a  whole
roadside  entertainment  thing  _  pitch  'n  putt,  batting  cages,  driving  
ranges,  mini  golf,  go-karts,
little  shack  fulla  video  games,  I  don't  know  whatall  —  but  there's  
some  kind  of  big  mixup
about  who  owns  the  land  now.  I  guess  he'll  get  it  eventually  —  
he's  a  persistent  fella   — but
right now it's in the courts.'

'And  the  Canal,'  Bill  murmured  as  they  turned  off  Outer  Center  
Street  and  onto  Pasture
Road  —  which,  as  Mike  had  said,  was  now  marked  with  a  green  
roadsign  reading  MALL
ROAD. 'The Canal's still here.'

'Ayup,' the cabbie said. 'That'll always be here, I guess.'

Now the Derry Mall was on Bill's left, and as they rolled past it, he felt that 
 queer doubling
sensation  again.  When  they  had  been  kids  all  of  this  had  been  a  
great  long  field  full  of  rank
grasses  and  gigantic  nodding  sunflowers  which  marked  the  northeastern  
end  of  the  Barrens.
Behind   it,   to   the   west,   was   the   Old   Cape   low-income   housing 
  development.   He   could
remember  them  exploring  this  field,  being  careful  not  to  fall  into  
the  gaping  cellarhold  of  the
Kitchener  Ironworks,  which  had  exploded  on  Easter  Sunday  in  the  year  
1906.  The  field  had
been  full  of  relics  and  they  had  unearthed  them  with  all  the  solemn 
 interest  of  archaeologists
exploring  Egyptian  ruins:  bricks,  dippers,  chunks  of  iron  with  rusty  
bolts  hanging  from  them,
panes   of  glass,  bottles  full  of  unnamable  gunk  that  smelled  like  
the  worst  poison  in  the  world.


Something  bad  had happened  near  here,  too,  in  the  gravel-pit close to 
the dump, but he could
not  remember  it  yet.  He  could  only  remember  a  name,  Patrick  
Humboldt,  and  that  it  had
something   to   do   with   a   refrigerator.   And   something   about   a   
bird   that   had   chased   Mike
Hanlon. What . . . ?

He shook his head. Fragments. Straws in the wind. That was all.

The  field  was  gone  now,  as  were  the  remains  of  the  Ironworks.  Bill  
remembered the great
chimney  of  the  Ironworks  suddenly.  Faced  with  tile,  caked  black  with  
soot  for  the  final  ten
feet  of  its  length,  it  had  lain  in  the  high  grass  like  a  gigantic  
pipe.  They  had  scrambled  up
somehow  and  had  walked  along  it,  arms  held  out  like  tightwire  
walkers,  laughing  —  He
shook  his  head,  as  if  to  dismiss  the  mirage  of  the  mall,  an  ugly  
collection  of  buildings  with
signs that said  SEARS and  J.  C.  PENNEY  and  WOOLWORTH  's and  CVS and  
YORK'S STEAK HOUSE
and  WALDENBOOKS  and dozens of others. Roads wove in and out of parking lots. 
The mall did
not  go  away,  because  it  was  no  mirage.  The  Kitchener  Ironworks was 
gone, and the field that
had grown up around its rums was likewise gone. The mall was the reality, not 
the memories.

But somehow he didn't believe that.

'Here  you  go,  mister,'  the  cabbie  said.  He  pulled  into  the  
parking-lot  of  a  building that
looked like a large plastic pagoda. 'A little late, but better late than never, 
am I right?'

'Indeed you are,' Bill said. He gave the cab-driver a five. 'Keep the change.'

'Good  fucking  deal!'  the  cabbie  exclaimed.  'You  need  someone  to  drive 
 you,  call  Big
Yellow and ask for Dave. Ask for me by name.'

'I'll  just  ask  for  the  religious  fella,'  Bill  said,  grinning.  'The  
one  who's  got  his  plot  all  picked
out in Mount Hope.'

'You got it,' Dave said, laughing. 'Have a good one, mister.'
'You too, Dave.'

He  stood  in  the  light  rain  for  a  moment,  watching  the  cab  draw  
away.  He  realized  that  he
had meant to ask the driver one more question, and had forgotten — perhaps on 
purpose.

He had meant to ask Dave if he liked living in Derry.

Abruptly,  Bill  Denbrough  turned  and  walked  into  the  Jade  of  the  
Orient.  Mike  Hanlon  was
in  the  lobby,  sitting  in  a  wicker  chair  with  a  huge  flaring  back.  
He  got  to  his  feet,  and  Bill  felt
deep  unreality  wash  over  him —  through  him.  That  sensation  of  
doubling was back, but now
it was much, much worse.

He  remembered  a  boy  who  had  been  about  five  feet  three,  trim,  and  
agile.  Before  him  was
a  man  who  stood  about  five-seven.  He  was  skinny.  His  clothes  seemed  
to  hang  on  him.  And
the  lines  in  his  face  said  that  he  was  on  the  darker  side  of  
forty  instead  of  only  thirty-eight or
so.

Bill's shock must have shown on his face, because Mike said quietly: 'I know 
how I look.'

Bill  flushed  and  said,  'It's  not  that  bad,  Mike,  it's  just  that  I  
remember  you  as a kid. That's
all it is.'

'Is it?'

'You look a little tired.'

'I  am  a little tired,' Mike said, 'but I'll make it. I guess.' He smiled 
then, and the smile lit his
face.  In  it  Bill  saw  the  boy  he  had  known  twenty-seven  years  ago.  
As  the  old  woodframe
Home  Hospital  had  been  overwhelmed  with  modern  glass  and  cinderblock,  
so  had  the  boy
that  Bill  had  known  been  overwhelmed  with  the  inevitable  accessories  
of  adulthood.  There
were  wrinkles  on  his  forehead,  lines  had  grooved  themselves  from  the  
comers  of  his  mouth
nearly  to  his  chin,  and  his  hair  was  graying  on  both  sides  above  
the  ears.  But  as  the  old
hospital, although overwhelmed, was still there, still visible, so was the boy 
Bill had known.

Mike stuck out his hand and said, 'Welcome back to Derry, Big Bill.'

Bill  ignored  the  hand  and  embraced  Mike.  Mike  hugged  him  back  
fiercely,  and  Bill  could
feel his hair, stiff and kinky, against his own shoulder and the side of his 
neck.


'Whatever's wrong, Mike, we'll take care of it,' Bill said. He heard the rough 
sound of tears
in his throat and didn't care. 'We beat it once, and we can b-beat it 
a-a-again.'

Mike  pulled  away  from  him,  held  him  at  arm's  length;  although  he  
was  still  smiling,  there
was  too  much  sparkle  in  his  eyes.  He  took  out  his  handkerchief  and  
wiped  them.  'Sure,  Bill,'
he said. 'You bet.'

'Would  you  gentlemen  like  to  follow  me?'  the  hostess  asked.  She  was  
a smiling Oriental
woman  in  a  delicate  pink  kimono  upon  which  a  dragon  cavorted  and  
curled  its  plated  tail.  Her
dark hair was piled high on her head and held with ivory combs.

'I know the way, Rose,' Mike said.

'Very  good,  Mr  Hanlon.'  She  smiled  at  both  of  them.  'You  are  well  
met  in  friendship,  I
think.'

'I think we are,' Mike said. 'This way, Bill.'

He  led  him  down  a  dim  corridor,  past  the  main  dining  room  and  
toward  a  door  where  a
beaded curtain hung.

'The others — ?' Bill began.

'All here now,' Mike said. 'All that could come.'

Bill  hesitated  for  a  moment  outside  the  door,  suddenly  frightened. It 
was not the unknown
that  scared  him,  not  the  supernatural;  it  was  the  simple  knowledge  
that  he  was  fifteen  inches
taller  than  he  had  been  in  1958  and  minus  most  of  his  hair.  He  
was  suddenly  uneasy  —
almost terrified  —  at  the  thought  of  seeing  them  all  again,  their  
children's  faces  almost  worn
away,  almost  buried  under  change  as  the  old  hospital  had  been  
buried.  Banks  erected  inside
their heads where once magic picture-palaces had stood.

We grew up,  he thought. We  didn't  think  it  would  happen,  not  then, not 
to us. But it did,
and if I go in there it will be real: we're all grownups now.

He  looked  at  Mike,  suddenly  bewildered  and  timid.  'How  do  they  
look?'  he  heard  himself
asking in a faltering voice. 'Mike . . . how do they look?'

'Come in and find out,' Mike said, kindly enough, and led Bill into the small 
private room.

2

Bill Denbrough Gets a Look

Perhaps  it  was  simply  the  dimness  of  the  room  that  caused  the  
illusion,  which  lasted  for  only
the  briefest  moment,  but  Bill  wondered  later  if  it  wasn't  some  sort  
of  message  meant  strictly
for him: that fate could also be kind.

In  that  brief  moment  it  seemed  to  him  that  none  of them had grown up, 
that his friends had
somehow done a Peter Pan act and were all still children.

Richie  Tozier  was  rocked  back  in  his  chair  so  that  he  was  leaning  
against  the  wall,  caught
in  the  act  of  saying  something  to  Beverly  Marsh,  who  had  a  hand  
cupped  over  her  mouth  to
hide  a  giggle;  Richie  had  a  wise-ass  grin  on  his  face  that  was  
perfectly  familiar.  There  was
Eddie  Kaspbrak,  sitting  on  Beverly's  left,  and  in  front  of  him  on  
the  table,  next  to  his  water-
glass,  was  a  plastic  squeeze-bottle  with  a  pistol-grip  handle  curving  
down  from  its  top.  The
trimmings  were  a  little  more  state-of-the-art,  but  the  purpose  was  
obviously  the  same:  it  was
an  aspirator.  Sitting  at  one  end  of  the  table,  watching  this  trio  
with  an  expression  of  mixed
anxiety, amusement, and concentration, was Ben Hanscom.

Bill found his hand wanting to go to his head and realized with a sorry kind of 
amusement
that  in  that  second  he  had  almost  rubbed  his  pate  to  see  if  his  
haur  had  magically  come  back

— that red, fine hair that he had begun to lose when he was only a college 
sophomore.

That  broke  the  bubble.  Richie  was  not  wearing  glasses,  he saw, and 
thought:  He probably
has  contacts  now  —  he  would.  He  hated  those  glasses.  The  tee-shirts  
and  cord  pants  he'd


habitually  worn  had  been  replaced  by  a  suit  that  hadn't  been  
purchased  off  any  rack  —  Bill
estimated that he was looking at nine hundred dollars' worth of tailor-made on 
the hoof.

Beverly  Marsh  (if  her  name  still  was  Marsh)  had  become  a  stunningly  
beautiful  woman.
Instead  of  the  casual  pony-tail, her hair  —  which  was  almost  exactly  
the  same  shade  his  own
had been  —  spilled  over  the  shoulders  of  her  plain  white  Ship  'n  
Shore  blouse  in  a  torrent  of
subdued  color.  In  this  dim  light  it  merely  glowed  like  a  well-banked 
 bed  of  embers.  In
daylight,  even  the  light  of  such  a  subdued  day  as  this  one,  Bill  
imagined  it  would  flame.  And
he  found  himself  wondering  what  it  would  feel  like  to  plunge  his  
hands  into  that  hair.  The
world's oldest story, he thought wryly. I love my wife but oh you kid.

Eddie  —  it  was  weird  but  true  —  had  grown  up  to  look  quite  a  
little  bit  like  Anthony
Perkins.  His  face  was  prematurely  lined  (although  in  his  movements  he 
 seemed  somehow
younger  than  either  Richie  or  Ben)  and  made  older  still  by  the  
rimless  spectacles  he  wore  —
spectacles  you  would  imagine  a  British  barrister  wearing  as  he  
approached  the  bench  or
leafed  through  a  legal  brief.  His  hair  was  short,  worn  in  an  
out-of-date  style  that  had  been
known  as  Ivy  League  in  the  late  fifties  and  early  sixties.  He  was  
wearing  a  loud  checked
sportcoat  that  looked  like  something  grabbed  from  the  Distress  Sale  
rack  of  a  men's  clothing
store  that  would  shortly  be  out  of  business  .  .  .  but  the  watch  
on  one  wrist  was  a  Patek
Philippe,  and  the  ring  on  the  little  finger  of  his  right  hand  was  
a  ruby.  The  stone  was  too
hugely vulgar and too ostentatious to be anything but real.

Ben  was  the  one  who  had  really  changed,  and,  looking  at  him  again,  
Bill  felt  unreality
wash  easily  over  him.  His  face  was  the  same,  and  his  hair,  although 
 graying  and  longer,  was
combed  in  the  same  unusual  right-side  part.  But  Ben  had  gotten  thin. 
 He  sat  easily enough in
his  chair,  his  unadorned  leather  vest  open  to  show  the  blue  chambray 
 work-shirt beneath. He
wore  Levi's  with  straight  legs,  cowboy  boots,  and  a  wide  belt  with  
a  beaten-silver buckle.
These  clothes  clung  easily  to  a  body  which  was  slim  and  
narrow-hipped.  He  wore  a  bracelet
with  heavy  links  on  one  wrist   —  not  gold  links  but  copper  ones.   
He  got  thin,  Bill thought.
He's a shadow of his former self so to speak . . . Ole Ben got thin. Wonders 
never cease.

There  was  a  moment  of  silence  among  the  six of them that was beyond 
description. It was
one  of  the  strangest  moments  Bill  Denbrough  ever  passed  in  his  life. 
 Stan  was  not  here,  but  a
seventh   had   come,   nonetheless.   Here   in   this   private   restaurant  
 dining   room   Bill   felt   its
presence  so  fully  that  it  was  almost  personified  — but not as an old 
man in a white robe with
a scythe on his shoulder. It was the white spot on the map which lay between 
1958 and 1985,
an  area  an  explorer  might  have  called  the  Great  Don't  Know.  Bill  
wondered  what  exactly  was
there.  Beverly  Marsh  in  a  short  skirt  which  showed  most  of  her  
long,  coltish  legs,  a  Beverly
Marsh  in  white  go-go  boots,  her  hair  parted  in  the  middle  and  
ironed?  Richie  Tozier  carrying
a sign which said  STOP THE WAR   on  one  side  and  GET  ROTC  OFF  CAMPUS   
on the  other? Ben
Hanscom  in  a  yellow  hard-hat  with  a  flag  decal  on  the  front,  
running  a  bulldozer  under  a
canvas   parasol,   his   shirt   off,   showing   a   stomach   which   
protruded   less   and   less   over   the
waistband  of  his  pants?  Was  this  seventh  creature  black?  No  relation 
to  either  H.  Rap  Brown
or  Grandmaster  Flash,  not  this  fellow,  this  fellow  wore  plain  white  
shirts  and  fade-into-the-
woodwork  J.  C.  Penney  slacks,  and  he  sat  in  a  library  carrell  at  
the  University  of  Maine,
writing  papers  on  the  origin  of  footnotes  and  the  possible  advantages 
 of  ISBN  numbers  in
book  cataloguing  while  the  marchers  marched  outside  and  Phil  Ochs  
sang  'Richard  Nixon
find  yourself  another  country  to  be  part  of  and  men  died  with  their 
 stomachs  blown  out  for
villages  whose  names  they  could  not  pronounce;  he  sat  there  
studiously  bent  over  his  work
(Bill  saw  him),  which  lay  in  a  slant  of  crisp  white  winterlight,  
his  face  sober  and  absorbed,
knowing  that  to  be  a  librarian  was  to  come  as  close  as  any  human  
being  can  to  sitting  in  the
peak-seat  of  eternity's engine. Was he the seventh? Or was it a young man 
standing before his
mirror,  looking  at  the  way  his  forehead  was  growing,  looking  at  a  
combful  of  pulled-out red
hairs,  looking  at  a  pile  of  university  notebooks  on  the  desk  
reflected  in  the  mirror,  notebooks


which  held  the  completed,  messy  first  draft  of  a  novel  entitled  
Joanna,  which  would  be
published a year later?

Some of the above, all of the above, none of the above.

It  didn't  matter,  really.  The  seventh  was  there,  and  in  that  one  
moment  ht ey  all  felt  it  .  .  .

and  perhaps  understood  best  the  dreadful  power  of  the  thing  that  had 
 brought  them  back.  It
lives,  Bill  thought,  cold  inside  his  clothes.  Eye  of  newt,  tail  of  
dragon,  Hand  of  Glory  .  .  .
whatever It was, It's here again, in Derry. It.

And   he   felt   —   suddenly   that   It   was   the   seventh;   that   It   
and   time   were   somehow
interchangeable,  that  It  wore  all  their  faces  as  well  as  the  
thousand  others  with  which  It  had
terrified  and  killed  .  .  .  and  the  idea  that  It  might be  them  was  
somehow  the  most frightening
idea of all.  How  much  of  us  was  left  behind  here?  he thought with 
sudden rising terror. How
much of us never left the drains and the sewers where It lived . . . and where 
It fed? Is that
why  we  forgot?  Because  part  of  each  of  us  never  had  any  future,  
never  grew,  never  left
Derry? Is that why?

He saw no answers on their faces . . . only his own questions reflected back at 
him.

Thoughts  form  and  pass  in  a  matter  of  seconds  or  milliseconds,  and  
create  their  own  time-
frames,  and  all  of  this  passed  through  Bill  Denbrough's  mind  in  a  
space  of  no  more  than  five
seconds.

Then  Richie  Tozier,  leaning  back  against  the  wall,  grinned  again  and  
said:  'Oh  my,  look  at
this  —  Bill  Denbrough  went  for  the  chrome  dome  look.  How  long  you  
been  Turtle  Waxing
your head, Big Bill?'

And  Bill,  with  no  idea  at  all  of  what  might  come  out,  opened  his  
mouth  and  heard  himself

say: 'Fuck you and the horse you rode in on, Trashmouth.'

There  was  a  moment  of  silence —  and  then  the  room  exploded  with  
laughter. Bill crossed
to  them  and  began  to  shake  hands,  and  while  there  was  something  
horrible  in  what  he  now
felt,  there  was  also  something  comforting  about  it:  this  sensation  of 
 having  come  home  for
good.

3

Ben Hanscom Gets Skinny

Mike  Hanlon  ordered  drinks,  and  as  if  to  make  up  for  the  prior  
silence,  everyone  began  to
talk at once. Beverly Marsh was now Beverly Rogan, it turned out. She said she 
was married
to  a  wonderful  man  in  Chicago  who  had  turned  her  whole  life  around  
and  who  had,  by  some
benign  magic,  been  able  to  transform  his  wife's  simple  talent  for  
sewing  into  a  successful
dress  business.  Eddie  Kaspbrak  owned  a  limousine  company  in  New  York. 
 'For  all  I  know,
my  wife  could  be  in  bed  with  Al  Pacino  right  now,'  he  said,  
smiling  mildly,  and  the  room
broke up.

They  all  knew  what  Bill  and  Ben  had  been  up  to,  but  Bill  had  a  
peculiar  sense  that  there

had  been  no  personal  association  of  their  names  — Ben as an architect, 
himself as a writer  —
with  people  they  had  known  as  children  until  very,  very  recently.  
Beverly  had  paperback
copies  of  Joanna  and  The Black Rapids  in  her  purse,  and  asked  him  if 
 he  would  sign  them.
Bill  did  so,  noticing  as  he  did  that  both  books  were  in  mint  
condition  —  as if they had been
purchased in the airport newsstand as she got off the plane.

In   like   fashion,   Richie   told   Ben   how   much   he   had   admired   
the   BBC   communications
center in London . . . but there was a puzzled son of light in his eyes, as if 
he could not quite
reconcile  that  building  with  this  man  .  .  .  or  with  the  fat  
earnest  boy  who  had  showed  them
how   to flood out half the Barrens with scrounged boards and a rusty car door.


Richie  was  a  disc  jockey  in  California.  He  told  them  he  was  known  
as  the  Man  of  a
Thousand Voices and Bill groaned. 'God, Richie, your Voices were always so 
terrible.'

'Flattery will get you nowhere, mawster,' Richie replied loftily.

When  Beverly  asked  him  if  he  wore  contacts  now,  Richie  said  in  a  
low  voice,  'Come  a
little  closer,  bay-bee.  Look  in  my  eyes.'  Beverly  did,  and  exclaimed  
delightedly  as  Richie
tilted his head a little so she could see the lower rims of the Hydromist soft 
lenses he wore.

'Is the library still the same?' Ben asked Mike Hanlon.

Mike  took  out  his  wallet  and  produced  a  snap  of  the  library,  taken  
from  above.  He  did it
with  the  proud  air  of  a  man  producing  snapshots  of  his  kids  when  
asked  about  his  family.
'Guy  in  a  light  plane  took  this,'  he  said,  as  the  picture  went  
from  hand  to  hand.  Tve  been
trying  to  get  either  the  City  Council  or  some  well-heeled  private  
donor to supply enough cash
to  get  it  blown  up  to  mural  size  for  the  Children's  Library.  So  
far,  no  soap.  But  it's  a  good
picture, huh?'

They  all  agreed  that  it  was.  Ben  held  it  longest,  looking  at  it  
fixedly.  Finally  he  tapped  the
glass  corridor  which  connected  the  two  buildings.  'Do  you  recognize  
this  from  anywhere  else,
Mike?'

Mike  smiled.  'It's  your  communications  center,'  he  said,  and  all  six  
of  them  burst  out
laughing.

The drinks came. They sat down.

That silence, sudden, awkward, and perplexing, fell again. They looked at
each other.

'Well?' Beverly asked in her sweet, slightly husky voice. 'What do we drink 
to?'

'To  us,'  Richie  said  suddenly.  And  now  he  wasn't  smiling.  His  eyes  
caught  Bill's  and  with  a
force  so  great  he  could  barely  deal  with  it,  Bill  remembered  himself 
 and  Richie  in  the  middle
of  Neibolt  Street,  after  the  thing  which  might  have  been  a  clown  or 
 which  might  have  been  a
werewolf  had  disappeared,  embracing  each  other  and  weeping.  When  he  
picked  up  his  glass,
his hand was trembling, and some of his drink spilled on the napery.

Richie  rose  slowly  to  his  feet,  and  one  by  one  the  others  followed  
suit:  Bill  first,  then  Ben
and  Eddie,  Beverly,  and  finally  Mike  Hanlon.  'To  us,'  Richie  said,  
and  like  Bill's  hand,  his
voice trembled a little. To the Losers' Club of 1958.'

'The Losers,' Beverly said, slightly amused.

The Losers,' Eddie said. His face was pale and old behind his rimless glasses.

The Losers,' Ben agreed. A faint and painful smile ghosted at the corners of 
his mouth.
The Losers,' Mike Hanlon said softly.

The Losers,' Bill finished.

Their glasses touched. They drank.

That  silence  fell  again,  and  this  time  Richie  did  not  break  it.  
This  time  the  silence  seemed
necessary.

They  sat  back  down  and  Bill  said,  'So  spill  it,  Mike.  Tell  us  
what's  been  happening  here,

and what we can do.'

'Eat first,' Mike said. 'We'll talk afterward.'

So  they  ate  .  .  .  and  they  ate  long  and  well.  Like  that  old  joke 
 about  the  condemned  man,
Bill thought,  but  his  own  appetite  was  better  than  it  had  been  in  
ages  .  .  .  since  he  was  a  kid,
he was tempted to think. The food was not stunningly good, but it was far from 
bad, and there
was  a  lot  of  it.  The  six  of  them  began  trading  stuff  back  and  
forth  —  spareribs,  moo  goo
gaipan,  chicken  wings  that  had  been  delicately  braised,  egg  rolls,  
water  chestnuts  wrapped  in
bacon, strips of beef that had been threaded onto wooden skewers.

They   began   with   pu-pu   platters,   and   Richie   made   a   childish   
but   amusing   business   of
broiling  a  little  bit  of  everything  over  the  flaming  pot  in  the  
center  of  the  platter  he  was


sharing  with  Beverly —  including  half  an  egg  roll  and  a  few red 
kidney beans.  'Flambé at my
table, I love it,' he told Ben. 'I'd eat shit on a shingle if it was flambé at 
my table.'

'And  probably  has,'  Bill  remarked.  Beverly  laughed  so  hard  at  this  
she  had  to  spit  a
mouthful of food into her napkin.

'Oh  God,  I  think  I'm  gonna  ralph,'  Richie  said  in  an  eerily  exact  
imitation  of  Don  Pardo,
and Beverly laughed harder, blushing a bright red.

'Stop it, Richie,' she said. 'I'm warning you.'

'The warning is taken,' Richie said. 'Eat well, dear.'

Rose  herself  brought  them  their  dessert  —  a  great  mound  of  baked  
Alaska  <vhich  she
ignited at the head of the table, where Mike sat.

'More  flambé  at  my  table,'  Richie  said  in  the  voice  of  a  man  who  
has  died  and  gone  to

heaven. 'This may be the best meal I've ever eaten in my life.'
'But of course,' Rose said demurely.

'If I blow that out, do I get my wish?' he asked her.

'At Jade of the Orient, all wishes are granted, sir.'

Richie's  smile  faltered  suddenly.  'I  applaud  the  sentiment,'  he  said,  
'but  you  know,  I  really
doubt the veracity.'

They   almost   demolished   the   baked   Alaska.   As   Bill   sat   back,   
his   belly   straining   the
waistband  of  his  pants,  he  happened  to  notice  the  glasses  on  the  
table.  There  seemed  to  be
hundreds  of  them.  He  grinned  a  little,  realizing  that  he  himself  had 
 sunk  two  martinis  before
the  meal  and  God  knew  how  many  bottles of Kirin beer with it. The others 
had done about as
well.  In  their  state,  fried  chunks  of  bowling  pin  would  probably  
have  tasted  okay.  And  yet  he
didn't feel drunk.

'I  haven't  eaten  like  that  since  I  was  a  kid,'  Ben  said.  They  
looked  at  him  and  a   faint flush
of  color  tinged  his  cheeks.  'I  mean  it  literally.  That  may  be  the  
biggest  meal  I've  eaten  since  I
was a sophomore in high school.'

'You went on a diet?' Eddie asked.

'Yeah,' Ben said. 'I did. The Ben Hanscom Freedom Diet.'
'What got you going?' Richie asked.

'You don't want to hear all that ancient history . . . ' Ben shifted 
uncomfortably.

'I don't know about the rest of them,' Bill said, 'but I do. Come on, Ben. 
Give. What turned
Haystack Calhoun into the magazine model we see before us today?'

Richie snorted a little. 'Haystack, right. I'd forgotten that.'

'It's not much of a story,' Ben said. 'No story at all, really. After that 
summer  — after 1958

—  we  stayed  in  Derry  another  two  years.  Then  my  mom  lost  her  job  
and  we  ended  up
moving to Nebraska, because she had a sister there who offered to take us in 
until my mother
got on her feet again. It wasn't so great. Her sister, my aunt Jean, was a 
miserly bitch who had
to  keep  telling  you  what  your  place  in  the  great  scheme  of  things  
was,  how  lucky  we  were
that my mom had a sister who could give us charity, how lucky we were not to be 
on welfare,
all that sort of thing. I was so fat I disgusted her. She couldn't leave it 
alone. "Ben, you ought
to  get  more  exercise.  Ben,  you'll  have  a  heart  attack  before  you're  
forty  if  you  don't  lose
weight.  Ben,  with  little  children  starving  in  the  world,  you  ought  
to  be  ashamed  of  yourself."'
He paused for a moment and sipped some water.

The thing was, she also trotted the starving children out if I didn't clean my 
plate.'
Richie laughed and nodded.

'Anyway,  the  country  was  just  pulling  out  of  a  recession  and  my  
mother  was  almost  a  year

finding  steady  work.  By  the  time  we  moved  out  of  aunt  Jean's  place  
in  La  Vista  and  got  our
own in Omaha, I'd put on about ninety pounds over when you guys knew me. I 
think I put on
most of it just to spite my Aunt Jean.'

Eddie whistled. 'That would have put you at about — '


'At  about  two  hundred  and  ten,'  Ben  said  gravely.  'Anyway,  I  was 
going to East Side High
School in Omaha, and the physedPeriods were . . . well, pretty bad. The other 
kids called me
Jugs. That ought to give you the idea.

'The  ragging  went  on  for  about  seven  months,  and  then  one  day,  
while  we  were  getting

dressed  ni  the locker room after the period, two or three of the guys started 
to . . . to kind of

slap  my  gut.  They  called  it  "fat-paddling."  Pretty  soon  two  or  three 
 others  got  in  on  it.  Then
four  or  five  more.  Pretty  soon  it  was  all  of  them,  chasing  me  
around  the  locker  room  and  up
the  hall,  whacking  my  gut,  my  butt,  my  back,  my  legs.  I  got  scared 
 and  started  to  scream.
That made the rest of them laugh like crazy.

'You  know,'  he  said,  looking  down  and  carefully  rearranging  his  
silverware,  'that's  the  last
time  I  can  remember  thinking  of  Henry  Bowers  until  Mike  called  me  
two  days  ago.  The  kid
who started it was a farmboy with these big old hands, and while they were 
chasing after me I
remember  thinking  that  Henry  had  come  back.  I  think  —   no,  I  know   
—  that's  when I
panicked.

They  chased  me  up  the  hall  past  the  lockers  where  the  guys  who  
played  sports  kept  their
stuff. I was naked and red as a lobster. I'd lost any sense of dignity or . . . 
or of myself, I guess
you'd  say.  Where  myself  was.  I  was  screaming  for  help.  And  here  
they  came  after  me,
screaming "Fat-paddling! Fat-paddling! Fat-paddling!" There was a bench — '

'Ben,  you  don't  have  to  put  yourself  through  this,'  Beverly  said  
suddenly.  Her  face  had
gone ashy-pale. She toyed with her water-glass, and almost spilled it.

'Let him finish,' Bill said.

Ben  looked  at  him  for  a  moment  and  then  nodded.  There  was  a  bench  
at  the  end  of  the
corridor.  I  fell  over  it  and  hit  my  head.  They  were  all  around  me  
in  another  minute  or  two,
and then this voice said: "Okay. That's enough. You guys go change up."

'It  was  Coach,  standing  there  in  the  doorway,  wearing  his  blue  
sweatpants  with  the  white
stripe  up  the  sides  and  his  white  tee-shirt.  There  was  no  way  of  
telling  how  long  he'd  been
standing  there.  They  all  looked  at  him,  some  of  them  grinning,  some  
of  them  guilty,  some  of
them just looking sort of vacant. They went away. And I burst into tears.

'Coach  just  stood  there  in  the  doorway  leading  back  to  the  gym,  
watching  me,  watching

this  naked  fat  boy  with  his  skin  all  red  from  the  fat-paddling,  
watching  this  fat  kid  crying  on
the floor.

'And finally he said, "Benny, why don't you just fucking shut up?"

'It shocked me so much to hear a teacher use that word that I did. I looked up 
at him, and
he  came  over  and  sat  down  on  the  bench  I'd  fallen  over.  He  leaned  
over  me,  and  the  whistle
around  his  neck  swung  out  and  bonked  me  on  the  forehead.  For  a  
second  I  thought  he  was
going to  kiss me  or something, and  I shrank back from him, but what he did 
was grab  one of
my tits in each hand and squeeze. Then he took his hands away and rubbed them 
on his pants
like he'd touched something dirty.

'"You  think  I'm  going  to  comfort  you?"  he  asked  me.  "I'm  not.  You  
disgust  them  and  you
disgust  me  as  well.  We  got  different reasons, but that's because they're 
kids and I'm not. They
don't  know  why  you  disgust  them.  I  do  know.  It's  because  I  see  you 
 burying  the  good  body
God  gave  you  in  a  great  big  mess  of  fat.  It's  a  lot  of  stupid  
self-indulgence, and it makes me
want  to  puke.  Now  listen  to  me,  Benny,  because  this  is  the  only  
tune  I'm  going  to  say  it  to
you.  I  got  a  football  team  to  coach,  and  basketball,  and  track,  and 
 some where in between I've
got  swimming  team.  So  I'll  just  say  it  once.  You're  fat  up  here."  
And  he  tapped my forehead
right  where  his  damned  whistle  had  bonked  me.  "That's  where  
everybody's  fat.  You  put
what's  between  your  ears  on  a  diet  and  you're  going  to  lose  weight. 
 But  guys  like  you  never
do.'"

'What a bastardl' Beverly said indignantly.


'Yeah,' Ben said, grinning. 'But he didn't   know  he  was  a  bastard,  that's 
 how  dumb  he  was.
He'd  probably  seen  Jack  Webb  in  that  movie  The  D.I.  about  sixty  
times,  and  he  actually
thought  he  was  doing  me  a  favor.  And  as  it  turned  out,  he  was.  
Because  I  thought  of
something right then. I thought . . . '

He  looked  away,  frowning  —  and Bill had the strangest feeling that he knew 
what Ben was
going to say before he said it.

'I  told  you  that  the  last  time  I  can  remember  thinking  of  Henry  
Bowers  was  when  the  other
boys  were  chasing  after  me  and  fat-paddling. Well, when the Coach was 
getting up to go, that
was the last time I really thought of what we'd done in the summer of '58. I 
thought — '

He  hesitated  again,  looking  at  each  of  them  in  turn,  seeming  to  
search their faces. He went
on carefully.

'I thought of how  good  we were together. I thought of what we did and how we 
did it, and
all  at  once  it  hit  me  that  if  Coach  had  to  face  anything  like  
that,  his  hair  would  probably  have
turned  white  all  at  once  and  his heart would have stopped dead in his 
chest like an old watch.
It wasn't fair, of course, but he hadn't been fair to me. What happened was 
simple enough — '

'You got mad,' Bill said.

Ben smiled. 'Yeah, that's right,' he said. 'I called, "Coach!"

'He turned around and looked at me. "You say you coach track?" I asked him.
'"That's right," he said. "Not that it's anything to you."

'"You  listen  to  me,  you  stupid  stone-brained son of a bitch," I said, and 
his mouth dropped
open  and  his  eyes  bugged  out.  "I'll  be  out  there  for  the  track  
team  in  March.  What  do  you
think about that?"

'"I think you better shut your mouth before it gets you into big trouble," he 
said.

'"I'm  going  to  run  down  everyone  you  get  out,"  I  said.  "I'm  going  
to  run down your best.

And then I want a fucking apology from you."

'His  fists  clenched,  and  for  a  minute  I  thought  he  was  going  to  
come  back  in  there  and  let
me  have  it.  Then  they  unclenched  again.  "You  just  keep  talking,  
fatboy,"  he  said  softly.  "You
got  the motormouth. But the day you can outrun my best will be the day I quit 
this place and
go back to picking corn on the circuit." And he left.'

'You lost the weight?' Richie asked.

'Well,  I  did,'  Ben  said.  'But  Coach  was  wrong.  It  didn't  start  in  
my head. It started with my
mother.  I  went  home  that  night  and  told  her  I  wanted  to  lose  some  
weight.  We  ended  up
having  a  hell  of  a  fight,  both  of  us  crying.  She  started  out  with  
that  same  old  song  and  dance:
I wasn't really  fat, I just had  big bones,  and a big boy who was going to be 
a big man had to
eat big just to stay even. It was a . . . a kind of security thing with her, I 
think. It was scary for
her,  trying  to  raise  a  boy  on  her  own.  She  had  no  education  and  
no  real  skills,  just  a
willingness  to  work  hard.  And  when  she  could  give  me  a  second  
helping  .  .  .  or  when  she
could look across the table at me and see that I was looking solid . . . '

'She felt like she was winning the battle,' Mike said.

'Uh-huh.'  Ben  drank  off  the  last  of  his  beer  and   wiped  a  small  
mustache  of  foam  off  his
upper lip with the heel of his hand. 'So the biggest fight wasn't with my head; 
it was with her.
She  just  wouldn't  accept  it,  not  for  months.  She  wouldn't  take  in  
my  clothes  and  she  wouldn't
buy  me  new  ones.  I  was  running by then, I ran everywhere, and sometimes 
my heart pounded
so  hard  I  felt  like  I  was  going  to  pass  out.  The  first  of  my  
mile  runs  I  finished  by  puking  and
then  fainting.  Then  for  awhile  I  just  puked.  And  after  awhile  I  was 
 holding  up  my  pants  while
I ran.

'I  got  a  paper-route  and  I  ran  with  the  bag  around  my  neck,  
bouncing  against  my  chest,
while  I  held  up  my  pants.  My  shirts  started  to  look  like  sails.  
And  nights  when  I  went  home
and  would  only  eat  half  the  stuff  on  my  plate  my  mother  would  
burst  ni to tears and say that I


was  starving  myself,  killing  myself,  that  I  didn't  love  her  anymore,  
that  I  didn't  care  about
how hard she had worked for me.'

'Christ,' Richie muttered, lighting a cigarette. 'I don't know how you handled 
it, Ben.'

'I  just kept  the  Coach's  face  in  front  of  me,'  Ben  said.  'I  just  
kept  remembering  the  way  he
looked after he grabbed my tits in the hallway to the boys' locker room that 
time. That's how I
did  it.  I  got  myself  some  new  jeans  and  stuff  with  the  paper-route 
money,  and the old guy in
the  first-floor  apartment  used  his  awl  to  punch  some  new  holes  in  
my  belt   —  about  five  of
them, as I remember. I think that I might have remembered the other time I had 
to buy a pair
of new jeans  —  that was when Henry pushed me into the  Barrens that day and 
they just about
got torn off my body.'

'Yeah,' Eddie said, grinning. 'And you told me about the chocolate milk. 
Remember that?'

Ben  nodded.  'If  I  did  remember,'  he  went  on,  'it  was  just  for  a  
second  — there and gone.
About  that same  time  I  started  taking  Health  and  Nutrition  at  school, 
 and  I  found  out  you
could  eat  just  about  all  the  raw  green  stuff  you  wanted  and  not  
gain  weight.  So  one  night  my
mother  put  on  a  salad  with  lettuce  and  raw  spinach  in  it,  chunks  
of  apple  and  maybe a little
leftover  ham.  Now  I've  never  liked  rabbit-food  that  much,  but  I  had  
three  helpings  and  just
raved on and on to my mother about how good it was.

'That  went  a  long  way  toward  solving  the  problem.  She  didn't  care  
so  much  what  I  ate as
long  as  I  ate a  lot  of  it.  She  buried  me  in  salads.  I  ate  them  
for  the  next  three  years.  There
were times when I had to look in the mirror to make sure my nose wasn't 
wriggling.'

'So  what  happened  about  the  Coach?'  Eddie  asked.  'Did  you  go  out  
for  track?'  He  touched
his aspirator, as if the thought of running had reminded him of it.

'Oh  yeah,  I  went  out,'  Ben  said.  'The  two-twenty and the four-forty. By 
then I'd lost seventy
pounds  and  I'd  sprung  up  two  inches  so  that  what  was  left  was  
better  distributed.  On  the first
day  of  trials  I  won  the  two-twenty  by  six  lengths  and  the  four 
-forty  by  eight.  Then  I  went
over to Coach, who looked mad enough to chew nails and spit out staples, and I 
said: "Looks
like  it's  time  you  got  out  on  the  circuit  and  started  picking  corn. 
When are you heading down
Kansas way?"'

'He  didn't  say  a  thing  at  first  — just swung a roundhouse and knocked me 
flat on my back.

Then  he  told  me  to  get  off  the  field.  Said  he  didn't  want  a  
smartmouth  bastard  like  me  on  his
track team.

'"I  wouldn't  be  on  it  if  President  Kennedy  appointed  me  to  it,"  I  
said,  wiping  blood  out  of
the corner of my mouth. "And since you got me going I won't hold you to it . . 
. but the next
time you sit down to a big plate of corn on the cob, spare me a thought."

'He told me if I didn't get out right then he was going to beat the living crap 
out of me.' Ben
was  smiling  a  little  .  .  .  but  there  was  nothing  very  pleasant  
about  that  smile,  certainly  nothing
nostalgic.  'Those  were  his  exact  words.  Everyone  was  watching  us,  
including  the  kids  I'd
beaten. They looked pretty embarrassed. So I just said, "I'll tell you what, 
Coach. You get one
free,  on  account  of  you're  a  sore  loser  but  too  old  to  learn  any  
better  now.  But  you  put  one
more  on  me  and  I'll  try  to  see  to  it  that you lose your job. I'm not 
sure I can do it, but I can
make a good try. I lost the weight so I could have a little dignity and a 
little peace. Those are
things worth fighting for."'

Bill  said,  'All  of  that  sounds  wonderful,  Ben  .  .  .  but  the  writer 
 in me wonders if any kid
ever really talked like that.'

Ben    nodded,    still    smiling    that    peculiar    smile.    'I    doubt 
   if    any    kid    who    hadn't
been    through    the    things    we    went    through    ever    did,'    
he    said.    'But    I    said    them

. . . and I meant them.'

Bill thought about this and then nodded. 'All right.'

'The Coach stood back with his hands on the hips of his sweat-pants,' Ben said. 
'He opened
his  mouth  and  then  he  closed  it  again.  Nobody  said  anything.  I  
walked  off,  and  that  was  the


last  I  had  to  do  with  Coach  Woodleigh.  When  my  home-room teacher 
handed me my course
sheet  for  my  junior  year,  someone  had  typed  the  word  excused  next  
to  phys.  ed.  and  he'd
initialed it.'

'You beat him!' Richie exclaimed, and shook his clenched hands over his head. 
'Way to go,
Ben!'

Ben shrugged. 'I think what I did was beat part of myself. Coach got me going, 
I guess . . .

but it was thinking of you guys that made me really believe that I could do it. 
And I did do it.'

Ben  shrugged  charmingly,  but  Bill  believed  he  could  see  fine  drops  
of  sweat  at  his  hairline.
'End of True Confessions. Except I sure could use another beer. Talking's 
thirsty work.'

Mike signalled the waitress.

All  six  of  them  ended  up  ordering  another  round,  and  they  talked  of 
 light  matters  until the
drinks  came.  Bill  looked  into  his  beer,  watching  the  way  the  bubbles 
 crawled  up  the  sides  of
the  glass.  He  was  both  amused  and  appalled  to  realize  he  was  hoping 
 someone  else  would
begin  to  story  about  the  years  between  —  that  Beverly  would  tell  
them  about the wonderful
man  she  had  married  (even  if  he  was  boring,  as  most  wonderful  men  
were),  or  that  Richie
Tozier  would  begin  to  expound  on  Funny  Incidents  in  the  Broadcasting  
Studio,  or  that  Eddie
Kaspbrak  would  tell  them  what  Teddy  Kennedy  was  really  like,  how  
much  Robert  Redford
tipped  .  .  .  or  maybe  offer  some  insights  into  why  Ben  had  been  
able  to  give  up  the  extra
pounds while he had needed to hang onto his aspirator.

The fact is,  Bill thought,  Mike is going to start talking any minute now, and 
I'm not sure I
want to hear what he has to say. The fact is, my heart is beating just a little 
too fast and my
hands are just a little too cold. The fact is, I'm just about twenty-five years 
too old to be this
scared. We all are. So say something, someone.  Let's talk of careers and 
spouses and what
it's like to look at your old playmates and realize that you've taken a few 
really good shots in
the nose from time itself. Let's talk about sex, baseball, the price of gas, 
the future of the
Warsaw Pact nations. Anything but what we came here to talk about. So say 
something, some
body.

Someone  did.  Eddie  Kaspbrak  did.  But  it  was  not  what  Teddy  Kennedy  
was  really  like  or
how  much  Redford  tipped  or  even  why  he  had  found  it  necessary  to  
keep  what  Richie  had
sometimes  called  'Eddie's  lung-sucker'  in  the  old  days.  He  asked  Mike 
 when  Stan  Uris  had
died.

'The night before last. When I made the calls.'
'Did it have to do with . . . with why we're here?'

'I  could  beg  the  question  and  say  that,  since  he  didn' t  leave  a  
note,  no  one  can  know  for

sure,'  Mike  answered,  'but  since  it  happened  almost  immediately  after  
I  called  him,  I  think  the
assumption is safe enough.'

'He killed himself, didn't he?' Beverly said dully. 'Oh God — poor Stan.'

The others were  looking  at  Mike,  who  finished  his  drink  and  said:  'He 
 committed  suicide,
yes.  Apparently  went  up  to  the  bathroom  shortly  after  I  called  him,  
drew  a  bath,  got  into  it,
and cut his wrists.'

Bill  looked  down  the  table,  which  seemed  suddenly  lined  with  shocked, 
pale faces   — no
bodies,  only  those  faces,  like  white  circles.  Like  white  balloons,  
moon  balloons,  tethered  here
by an old promise that should have long since lapsed.

'How did you find out?' Richie asked. 'Was it carried in the papers up here?'

'No.  For  some  time  now  I've  subscribed  to  the  newspapers  of  those  
towns  closest  to  all  of
you. I have kept tabs over the years.'

'I Spy.' Richie's face was sour. 'Thanks, Mike.'
'It was my job,' Mike said simply.

'Poor  Stan,'  Beverly  repeated.  She  seemed  stunned,  unable  to  cope  
with  the  news.  'But  he

was so brave back then. So . . . determined.'


'People change,' Eddie said.

'  —  'Do  they?'  Bill  asked.  'Stan  was  —  '  He  moved  his  hands  on  
the  tablecloth,  trying  to
catch  the  right  words.  'He  was  an  ordered  person.  The  kind  of  
person  who  has  to  have  his
books  divided  up  into  fiction  and  nonfiction  on  his  shelves  .  .  .  
and  then  wants  to  have  each
section  in  alphabetical  order.  I  can  remember  something  he  said  once  
—  I  don't  remember
where  we  were  or  what  we  were  doing,  at  least  not  yet,  but  I  
think  it  was  toward  the  end  of
things.  He  said  he  could  stand  to  be  scared,  but  he  hated  being  
dirty.  That  seemed  to  me  the
essence  of  Stan.  Maybe  it  was  just  too  much,  when  Mike  called.  He  
saw  his  choices as being
only  two:  stay  alive  and  get  dirty  or  die  clean.  Maybe  people  
really  don't  change  as  much  as
we think. Maybe they just . . . maybe they just stiffen-up.'

There  was  a  moment  of  silence  and  then  Richie  said,  'All  right,  
Mike.  What's  happening  in
Derry? Tell us.'

'I can tell you some,' Mike said. 'I can tell you, for instance, what's 
happening now  — and I
can  tell  you  some  things  about  yourselves.  But  I  can't  tell  you  
everything  that  happened  back
in  the  summer  of  1958,  and  I  don't  believe  I'll  ever  have  to.  
Eventually  you'll  remember  it  for
yourselves.  And  I  think  if  I  told  you  too  much  before  your  minds  
were  ready  to  remember,
what happened to Stan — '

'Might happen to us?' Ben asked quietly.

Mike nodded. 'Yes. That's exactly what I'm afraid of.'
Bill said: 'Then tell us what you can, Mike.'

'All right,' he said. 'I will.'

4

The Losers Get the Scoop

'The murders have started again,' Mike said flatly.

He looked up and down the table, and then his eyes fixed on Bill's.

The  first  of  the  "new  murders"  —  if  you'll  allow  me  that  rather  
grisly  conceit  —  began on
the  Main  Street  Bridge  and  ended  underneath  it.  The  victim  was  a  
gay  and  rather  childlike
man named Adrian Mellon. He had a bad case of asthma.'

Eddie's hand stole out and touched the side of his aspirator.

'It  happened  last  summer  on  July  21st,  the  last  night  of  the  Canal  
Days  Festival,  which  was
a kind of celebration, a . . . a . . . '

'A  Derry  ritual,'  Bill  said  in  a  low  voice.  His  long  fingers  were  
slowly  massaging  his
temples,  and  it  was  not  hard  to  guess  he  was  thinking  about  his  
brother  George  .  .  .  George,
who had almost certainly opened the way the last time this had happened.

'A ritual,' Mike said quietly. 'Yes.'

He  told  them  the  story  of  what  had  happened  to  Adrian  Mellon  
quickly,  watching  with  no
pleasure  as  their  eyes  got  bigger  and  bigger.  He  told  them  what  the 
  News  had reported and
what  it  had  not  .  .  .  the  latter  including  the  testimony  of  Don  
Hagarty  and  Christopher  Unwin
about  a  certain  clown  which  had  been  under  the  bridge  like  the  
troll  in  the  fabled  story  of
yore,  a  clown  which  had  looked  like  a  cross  between  Ronald  McDonald  
and  Bozo,  according
to Hagarty.

'It    was    him,'    Ben    said    in    a    sick    hoarse    voice.    
'It    was    tHat    fucker    Penny-
wise.'

'There's  one  other  thing,'  Mike  said,  looking  at  Bill.  'One  of  the  
investigating  officers  —

the  one  who  actually  pulled  Adrian  Mellon  out  of  the  Canal —  was a 
town cop named Harold
Gardener.'

'Oh Jesus Christ,' Bill said in a weak teary voice.


'Bill?'  Beverly  looked  at  him,  then  put  a  hand  on  his  arm.  Her  
voice  was  full  of  startled
concern. 'Bill, what's wrong?'

'Harold  would  have  been  about  five  then,'  Bill  said.  His  stunned  
eyes  searched  Mike's  face
for confirmation.

'Yes.'

'What is it, Bill?' Richie asked.

'H-H-Harold  Gardener  was  the  s-son  of  Dave  Gardener,'  Bill  said.  
'Dave  lived  down  the
street from us back then, when George was k-killed. He was the one who got to 
Juh juh . . . to
my brother first and brought him up to the house, wrapped in a piece of 
qu-quilt.'

They sat silently, saying nothing. Beverly put a hand briefly over her eyes.
'It all fits rather too well, doesn't it?' Mike said finally.

'Yes,' Bill said in a low voice. 'It fits, all right.'

'I'd  kept  tabs  on  the  six  of  you  over  the  years,  as  I  said,'  Mike 
 went  on,  'but  it  wasn't  until
then  that  I  began  to  understand  just  why  I  had  been  doing  it,  that 
 it  had  a  real  and  concrete
purpose.  Still,  I  held  off,  waiting  to  see  how  things  would  develop. 
 You  see,  I  felt  that  I  had
to       be  absolutely  sure  before  I  .  .  .  disturbed  your  lives.  Not 
 ninety  percent,  not  even  ninety-
five percent. One hundred was all that would do it.

'In  December  of  last  year,  an  eight-year-old  boy  named  Steven  Johnson 
was found dead in
Memorial  Park.  Like  Adrian  Mellon,  he  had  been  badly  mutilated  just  
before  or  just  after  his
death, but he looked as if he could have died of just plain fright.'

'Sexually assaulted?' Eddie asked.
'No. Just plain mutilated.'

'How many in all?' Eddie asked, not looking as if he really wanted to know.
'It's bad,' Mike said.

'How many?' Bill repeated.
'Nine. So far.'

'It can't be!' Beverly cried. 'I would have read about it in the paper . . . 
seen it on the news!
When that crazy cop killed all those women in Castle Rock, Maine . . . and 
those children that
were murdered in Atlanta . . . '

'Yes,  that,'  Mike  said.  'I've  thought  about  that  a  lot.  It's  really  
the  closest  correlative  to
what's  going  on  here,  and  Bev's  right:  that  really  was  coast-to-coast 
 news.  In  some  ways,  the
Atlanta  comparison  is  the  thing  about  all  of  this  that  frightens  me  
the  most.  The  murder  of
nine  children  .  .  .  we  should  have  TV  news  correspondents  here,  and 
 phony  psychics,  and
reporters from The Atlantic Monthly and Rolling Stone . . .  the whole media 
circus, in short.'

'But it hasn't happened,' Bill said.

'No,'  Mike  answered,  'it  hasn't.  Oh,  there  was  a  Sunday-supplement  
piece  about  it  in  the
Portland Sunday  Telegram, and ano ther one in the Boston  Globe after the last 
two. A Boston-
based   television   program   called   Good   Day!   did   a   segment   this  
 February   on   unsolved
murders,  and  one  of  the  experts  mentioned  the  Derry  murders,  but  
only  passingly  .  .  .  and  he
certainly  gave  no  indic ation  of  knowing  there  had  been  a  similar  
batch  of  murders  in  1957-
58, and another in 1929-30.

'There  are  some  ostensible  reasons,  of  course.  Atlanta,  New  York,  
Chicago,  Detroit  .  .  .

those  are  big  media  towns,  and  in  big  media  towns  when  something  
happens it makes a bang.
There  isn't  a  single  TV  or  radio  station  in  Derry,  unless  you  count 
 the  little  FM  the  English
and  Speech  Department  runs  up  at  the  high  school.  Bangor's  got  the  
corner  on  the  market
when it comes to the media.'

'Except for the Derry News,' Eddie said, and they all laughed.

'But   we   all   know   that   doesn't   really   cut   it   with   the   way  
 the   world   is   today.   The
communication  web  is  there,  and  at  some  point  the  story  should  have  
broken  nationally.  But
it didn't. And I think the reason is just this: It doesn't want it to.'


'It,' Bill mused, almost to himself.

'It,'  Mike  agreed.  'If  we  have  to  call  It  something,  it  might  as  
well  be  what  we  used  to  call
It. I've begun to think, you see, that It has been here so long whatever It 
really is . . . that It's
become a part of Derry, something as much a part of the town as the Standpipe, 
or the Canal,
or  Bassey  Park,  or  the  library.  Only  It's  not  a  matter  of  outward  
geography,  you  understand.
Maybe that was true once, but now It's . . . inside. Somehow It's gotten 
inside. That's the only
way  I  know  to  understand  all  of  the  terrible  things  that  have  
happened  here  —  the nominally
explicable  as  well  as  the  utterly  inexplicable!  There  was  a  fire  at  
a  Negro  nightclub  called  the
Black   Spot   in   1930.  A  year  before  that,  a  bunch  of  half-bright  
Depression  outlaws  was
gunned down on Canal Street in the middle of the afternoon.'

'The Bradley Gang,' Bill said. 'The FBI got them, right?'

'That's  what  the  histories  say,  but  that's  not  precisely  true. So  far 
 as  I've  been  able  to  find
out  —  and  I'd  give  a  lot  to  believe  that  it  wasn't  so,  because  I  
love  this  town  — the Bradley
Gang,  all  seven  of  them,  were  actually  gunned  down  by  the  good  
citizens  of  Derry.  I'll  tell
you about it sometime.

'There  was  the  explosion  at  the  Kitchener  Ironworks  during  an  Easter 
-egg  hunt  in  1906.
There  was  a  horrible  series  of  animal  mutilations  that  same  year  
that  was  finally  traced  to
Andrew   Rhulin,   the   grand-uncle   of   the   man   who   now   runs   the  
 Rhulin   Farms.   He   was
apparently  bludgeoned  to  death  by  the  three  deputies  who  were  
supposed  to  bring  him  in.
None     of the deputies were ever brought to trial.'

Mike  Hanlon  produced  a  small  notebook  from  an  inner  pocket  and  paged 
 through  it,
talking  without  looking  up.  'In  1877  there  were  four  lynchings  inside 
 the  incorporated  town
limits.  One  of  those  that  climbed  a  rope  was  the  lay  preacher  of  
the  Methodist  Church,  who
apparently  drowned  all  four  of  his  children  in  the  bathtub  as  if  
they  were  kittens  and  then  shot
his  wife  in  the head.  He  put  the  gun  in  her  hand  to  make  it  look  
like  suicide,  but  no  one  was
fooled.  A  year  before  that  four  loggers  were  found  dead  in  a  cabin  
downstream  on  the
Kenduskeag,  literally  torn  apart.  Disappearances  of  children,  of  whole  
families,  are  recorded
in  old  diary  extracts  .  .  .  but  not  in  any  public  document.  It  
goes  on  and  on,  but  perhaps  you
get the idea.'

'I get the idea, all right,' Ben said. 'Something's going on here, but it's 
private.'

Mike closed his notebook, replaced it in his inner pocket, and looked at them 
soberly.

'If  I  were  an  insurance  man  instead  of  a  librarian,  I'd  draw  you  a 
 graph,  maybe.  It  would
show  an  unusually  high  rate  of  every  violent  crime  we  know  of,  not  
excluding  rape,  incest,
breaking and entering, auto theft, child abuse, spouse abuse, assault.

'There's  a  medium-sized  city  in  Texas  where  the  violent-crime-rate  is  
far  below  what  you'd
expect  for  a  city  of  its  size  and  mixed  racial  make-up.  The   
extraordinary  placidity  of  the
people  who  live  there  has  been  traced  to  something  in  the  water  .  
.  .  a  natural  trank  of  some
kind.  The  exact  opposite  holds  true  here.  Derry  is  a  violent  place  
to  live  in  an  ordinary  year.
But  every  twenty-seven  years  —  although  the  cycle  has  never  been  
perfectly  exact  —  that
violence has escalated to a furious peak . . . and it has never been national 
news.'

'You're saying there's a cancer at work here,' Beverly said.

'Not  at  all.  An  untreated  cancer  invariably  kills.  Derry  hasn't  died; 
 on  the  contrary,  it  has
thrived  .  .  .  in  an unspectacular, unnewsworthy way, of course. It is 
simply a fairly prosperous
small  city  in  a  relatively  unpopulous  state  where  bad  things  happen  
too  often  .  .  .  and  where
ferocious things happen every quarter of a century or so.'

'That holds true all down the line?' Ben asked.

'Mike  nodded.  'All  down  the  line.  1715-16,  1740  until  roughly  1743  — 
 that  must  have
been a bad one  —  1769-70, and on and on. Right up to the present time. I have 
a feeling that
it's  been  getting  steadily  worse,  maybe  because  there  have  been  more  
people  in  Derry  at  the


end of each cycle, maybe for some other reason. And in 1958, the cycle appears 
to have come
to a premature end. — For which we were responsible.'

Bill Denbrough leaned forward, his eyes suddenly bright. 'You're sure of that? 
Sure?'

'Yes,' Mike said. 'All the other cycles reached their peak around September and 
then ended
in a big way. Life usually took on its more or less normal tenor by Christmas . 
. . Easter at the
latest.  In  other  words,  there  were  bad  "years"  of  fourteen  to  twenty 
 months  every  twenty-
seven  years.  But  the  bad  year  that  began  when  your  brother  was  
killed  in  October  of  1957
ended quite abruptly in August of 1958.'

'Why?'  Eddie  asked  urgently.  His  breath  had  thinned;  Bill  remembered  
that high whistle as

Eddie  inhaled  breath,  and  knew  that  he  would  soon  be  tooting  on  the 
 old  lung-sucker. 'What
did we do?

The question hung there. Mike seemed to regard it . . . and at last he shook 
his head. 'You'll
remember,' he said. 'In time you'll remember.'

'What if we don't?' Ben asked.

'Then God help us all.'

'Nine children dead this year,' Rich said. 'Christ.'

'Lisa  Albrecht  and  Steven  Johnson  in  late  1984,'  Mike  said.  'In  
February  a  boy  named
Dennis  Torrio  disappeared.  A  high-school  boy.  His  body  was  found  in  
mid-March,  in  the
Barrens. Mutilated. This was nearby.'

He  took  a  photograph  from  the  same  pocket  into  which  he  had  
replaced  the  notebook.  It
made  its  way  around  the  table.  Beverly  and  Eddie  looked  at  it,  
puzzled,  but  Richie Tozier
reacted  violently.  He  dropped  it  as  if  it  were  hot.  'Jesus!  Jesus,  
Mike!'  He  looked  up,  his  eyes
wide and shocked. A moment later he passed the picture to Bill.

Bill  looked  at  it  and  felt  the  world  swim  into  gray  tones  all  
around  him.  For  a  moment he
was sure he would pass out. He heard a groan, and knew he had made the sound. 
He dropped
the picture.

'What is it?' he heard Beverly saying. 'What does it mean, Bill?'

'It's  my  brother's  school  picture,'  Bill  said  at  last.  'It's  
Juh-Georgie.  The  picture  from  his
album. The one that moved. The one that winked.'

They  handed  it  around  again  then,  while  Bill  sat  as  still  as  stone  
at  the  head  of  the  table,
looking  out  into  space.  It  was  a  photograph  of  a  photograph.  The  
picture  showed  a  tattered
school  photo  propped  up  against  a  white  background  —  smiling  lips  
parted  to  exhibit  two
holes  where  new  teeth  had  never  grown  (unless  they  grow  in  your  
coffin,  Bill thought, and
shuddered). On the margin below George's picture were the words SCHOOL FRIENDS 
1957-58.

'It  was  found  this year?'  Beverly  asked  again.  Mike  nodded  and  she  
turned  to  Bill.  'When

did you last see it, Bill?'

He wet his lips, tried to speak. Nothing came out. He tried again, hearing the 
words echo in
his head, aware of the stutter coming back, fighting it, fighting the terror.

'I haven't seen that picture since 1958. That spring, the year after George 
died. When I tried

to show it to Richie, it was g-gone.'

There  was  an  explosive  gasping  sound  that  made  them  all  look around. 
Eddie was setting
his aspirator back on the table and looking slightly embarrassed.

'Eddie  Kaspbrak  blasts  off!'  Richie  cried  cheerfully,  and  then,  
suddenly  and  eerily,  the
Voice  of  the  MovieTone  Newsreel  Narrator  came  from  Rich's  mouth:  
'Today  in  Derry,  a
whole  city  turns  out  for  Asthmatics  on  Parade,  and  the  star  of  the  
show  is  Big  Ed  the
Snothead, known all over New England as — '

He stopped abruptly, and one hand moved toward his face, as if to cover his 
eyes, and Bill
suddenly thought: No — no, that's not it. Not to cover his eyes but to push his 
glasses up on
his nose. The glasses that aren't even there anymore. Oh dear Christ, what's 
going on here?


'Eddie,  I'm  sorry,'  Rich  said.  'That  was  cruel.  I  don't  know  what  
the  hell  I  was  thinking
about.' He looked around at the others, bewildered.

Mike Hanlon spoke into the silence.

'I'd   promised   myself   after   Steven   Johnson's   body   was   discovered 
  that   if   anything   else
happened  —  if  there  was  one  more  clear  case   —  I would make the calls 
that I ended up not
making  for  another  two  months.  It  was  as  if  I  was  hypnotized  by  
what  was  happening,  by  the
consciousness  of it  — the  deliberateness of it. George's picture was found 
by a fallen log less
than  ten  feet  from  the  Torrio  boy's  body.  It  wasn't hidden; quite the 
contrary. It was as if the
killer wanted it to be found. As I'm sure the killer did.'

'How did you get the police photo, Mike?' Ben asked. That's what it is, isn't 
it?'

'Yes,  that's  what  it  is.  There's  a  fellow  in  the  Police Department  
who  isn't  averse  to  making
a little extra money. I pay him twenty bucks a month — all that I can afford. 
He's a pipeline.

The body of Dawn Roy was found four days after the Torrio boy. McCarron Park. 
Thirteen
years old. Decapitated.

'April  23rd  of  this  year.  Adam  Terrault.  Sixteen.  Reported  missing  
when  he   didn't come
home  from  band  practice.  Found  the  next  day  just  off  the  path  that  
runs  through  the  greenbelt
behind West Broadway. Also decapitated.

'May  6th.  Frederick  Cowan.  Two  and  a  half.  Found  in  an  upstairs  
bathroom,  drowned  in
the toilet.'

'Oh, Mike!' Beverly cried.

'Yeah, it's bad,' he said, almost angrily. 'Don't you think I know that?'

'The  police  are  convinced  that  it  couldn't  have  been  —  well,  some  
kind  of  accid ent?'  Bev
asked.

Mike  shook  his  head.  'His  mother  was  hanging  clothes  in  the  back  
yard.  She  heard  sounds

of  a  struggle  —  heard  her  son  screaming.  She  ran  as  fast  as  she  
could.  As  she  went  up  the
stairs,  she  says  she  heard  the  sound  of  the  toilet  flushing  
repeatedly  —  that,  and  someone
laughing. She said it didn't sound human.'

'And she saw nothing at all?' Eddie asked.

'Her son,' Mike said simply. 'His back had been broken, his skull fractured. 
The glass door
of  the  shower-stall  was  broken.  There  was  blood  everywhere.  The  
mother  is  in  the  Bangor
Mental  Health  Institute,  now.  My  .  .  .  my  Police  Department  source  
says  she's  quite  lost  her
mind.'

'No fucking wonder,' Richie said hoarsely. 'Who's got a cigarette?'
Beverly gave him one. Rich lit it with hands that shook badly.

'The  police  line  is  that  the  killer  came  in  through  the  front  door  
while  the  Cowan  boy's
mother  was  hanging  her  clothes  in  the  back  yard.  Then,  when  she  ran 
 up  the  back  stairs,  he
supposedly  jumped  from  the  bathroom  window  into  the  yard  she'd  just  
left  and  got  away
clean.  But  the  window  is  only  one  of  those  half-sized  jobs;  a  kid  
of  seven  would  have  to
wriggle   to   get   through   it.   And   the   drop   was   twenty-five   
feet   to   a   stone-flagged   patio.
Rademacher  doesn't  like  to  talk  about  those  things,  and  no  one  in  
the  press  —  certainly no
one at the News — has pressed him about them.'

Mike  took  a  drink  of  water  and  then  passed  another  picture  down  the 
 line.  This  was  not  a

police  photograph;  it  was  another  school  picture.  It  showed  a  
grinning  boy  who  was  maybe
thirteen.  He  was  dressed  in  his  best  for  the  school  photo  and  his  
hands  were  clean  and  folded
neatly in his lap . . . but there was a devilish little glint in his eyes. He 
was black.

'Jeffrey  Holly,'  Mike  said.  'May  13th.  A  week  after  the  Cowan  boy  
was  killed.  Torn  open.

He was found in Bassey Park, by the Canal.

'Nine  days  after  that,  May  22nd,  a  fifthgrader  named  John  Feury  was  
found  dead  out  on
Neibolt Street — '


Eddie  uttered  a  high,  quavering  scream.  He  groped  for  his  aspirator  
and  knocked  it  off  the
table.  It  rolled  down  to  Bill,  who  picked  it  up.  Eddie's  face  had  
gone  a  sickish  yellow  color.
His breath whistled coldly in his throat.

'Get him something to drink!' Ben roared. 'Somebody get him —

But  Eddie  was  shaking  his  head.  He  triggered  the  aspirator  down  his  
throat.  His  chest
heaved  as  he  tore  in  a  gulp  of  air.  He  triggered  the  aspirator  
again  and  then  sat  back,  eyes
half-closed, panting.

'I'll be all right,' he gasped. 'Gimme a minute, I'm with you.'

'Eddie, are you sure?' Beverly asked. 'Maybe you ought to lie down — '

'I'll be all right,' he repeated querulously. 'It was just . . . the shock. You 
know. The shock.

I'd forgotten all about Neibolt Street.'

No  one  replied;  no  one  had to. Bill thought:  You believe your capacity 
has been reached,
and then Mike produces another name, and yet another, like a black magician 
with a hatful of
malign tricks, and you're knocked onyour ass again.

It  was  too  much  to  face  all  at  once,  this  outpouring  of  
inexplicable  violence,  somehow
directly aimed at the six people here — or so George's photograph seemed to 
suggest.

'Both  of  John  Feury's  legs  were  gone,'  Mike  continued  softly,  'but  
the  medical  examiner
says  that  happened  after  he  died.  His  heart  gave  out.  He  seems  to  
have  quite  literally  died  of
fear. He was found by the postman, who saw a hand sticking out from under the 
porch — '

'It  was  29,  wasn't  it?'  Rich  said,  and  Bill  looked  at  him  quickly.  
Rich  glanced  back  at  him,
nodded slightly, and then looked at Mike again. 'Twenty-nine Neibolt Street.'

'Oh yes,' Mike said in that same calm voice. 'It was number 29.' He drank more 
water. 'Are

you really all right, Eddie?'

Eddie nodded. His breathing had eased.

'Rademacher  made  an  arrest  the  day  after  Feury's  body  was  
discovered,'  Mike  said.  'There
was a front-page editorial in the News that same day, calling for his 
resignation, incidentally.'

'After eight murders?' Ben said. 'Pretty radical of them, wouldn't you say?'
Beverly wanted to know who had been arrested.

'A  guy  who  lives  in  a  little  shack  way  out  on  Route  7,  almost  
over  the  town  line  and  into

Newport,'  Mike  said.  'Kind  of  a  hermit.  Burns  scrapwood  in  his  
stove,  roofed  the  place  with
scavenged  shingles  and  hubcaps.  Name  of  Harold  Earl.  Probably  doesn't  
see  two  hundred
dollars  in  cash  money  over  the  course  of  a  year.  Someone  driving  by 
 saw  him  standing  out  in
his  dooryard,  just  looking  up  at  the  sky,  on  the  day  John  Feury's  
body  was  discovered.  His
clothes were covered with blood.'

Then maybe — ' Rich began hopefully.

'He had three butchered deer in his shed,' Mike said. 'He'd been jacking over 
in Haven. The
blood  on  his  clothes  was  deer-blood. Rademacher asked him if he killed 
John Feury, and Earl
is  supposed  to  have  said,  "Oh  ayuh,  I  killed  a  lot  of  people.  I  
shot  most  of  them  in  the  war."
He  also  said  he'd  seen  things  in  the  woods  at  night.  Blue  lights  
sometimes,  floating  just  a  few
inches off the ground. Corpse-lights, he called them. And Bigfoot.

'They  sent  him  up  to  the  Bangor  Mental  Health.  According  to  the  
medical  report,  his  liver's
almost entirely gone. He's been drinking paint-thinner — '

'Oh my God,' Beverly said.

'  —  and  is  prone  to  hallucinations.  They've  been  holding  on  to  him, 
 and  until  three  days
ago  Rademacher  was  sticking  to  his  idea  that  Earl  was  the  most  
likely  suspect.  He  had  eight
guys  out  there,  digging  around  his  shack  and  looking  for  the  missing 
 heads,  lampshades  made
out of human skin, God knows what.'

Mike paused,  head lowered, and then went on. His voice was slightly hoarse 
now. 'I'd held
off  and  held  off.  But  when  I  saw  this  last  one,  I  made  the  calls. 
 I  wish  to  God  I'd  made  them
sooner.'


'Let's see,' Ben said abruptly.

'The  victim  was  another  fifthgrader,'  Mike  said.  'A  classmate  of  the  
Feury  boy.  He  was
found  just  off  Kansas  Street,  near  where  Bill  used  to  hide  his  bike 
 when  we  were  in  the
Barrens.  His  name  was  Jerry  Bellwood.  He  was  torn  apart.  What  .  .  
.  what  was  left  of  him
was  found  at  the  foot  of  a  cement  retaining  wall  that  was  put  in  
along  most  of  Kansas  Street
about  twenty  years  ago  to  stop  the  soil  erosion.  This  police  
photograph  of  the  section  of  that
wall where Bellwood was found was taken less than half an hour after the body 
was removed.
Here.'

He passed the picture to Rich Tozier, who looked and passed it on to Beverly. 
She glanced

at  it  briefly,  winced,  and  passed  it  on  to  Eddie,  who  gazed  at  it  
long  and  raptly  before  handing
it on to Ben. Ben passed it to Bill with barely a glance.

Printing straggled its way across the concrete retaining wall. It said:

Bill  looked  up  at  Mike  grimly.  He  had  been  bewildered  and  
frightened;  now  he  felt  the  first
stirrings  of  anger.  He  was  glad.  Angry  was  not  such  a  great  way  to 
 feel,  but  it  was  better than
the  shock,  better  than  the  miserable  fear.  'Is  that  written  in  what  
I  think  it's  written  in?'  'Yes,'
Mike said. 'Jerry Bellwood's blood.'

5

Richie Gets Beeped

Mike  had  taken  his  photographs  back.  He  had  an  idea  that  Bill  might 
 ask  for  the  one  of
George's  last  school  picture,  but  Bill  did  not.  He  put  them  in  his  
inside  jacket  pocket,  and
when they were out of sight, all of them — Mike included — felt a sense of 
relief.

'Nine children,' Beverly was saying softly. 'I can't believe it.  I mean  . .  
. I can believe it, but
I can't believe it. Nine kids and nothing? Nothing at all?

'It's not quite like that,' Mike said. 'People are angry, people are scared . . 
. or so it seems.

It's really impossible to tell which ones really feel that way and which ones 
are faking.'

'Faking?

'Beverly,  do  you  remember,  when  we  were  kids,  the  man  who  just  
folded  his  newspaper
and went inside his house while you were screaming at him for help?'

For  a  moment  something  seemed  to  jump  in  her  eyes  and  she  looked  
both  terrified  and
aware. Then she only looked puzzled. 'No . . . when was that, Mike?'

'Never  mind.  It  will  come  to  you  in  time.  All  I  can  say  now  is  
that  everything  iooks  the
way  it  should  in  Derry.  Faced  with  such  a  grisly  string  of  murders, 
 people  are  doing  all  the
things  you'd  expect  them  to  do,  and  most  of  them  are  the  same  
things  that  went  on  while  kids
were  disappearing  and  getting  murdered  back  in  '58.  The  Save  Our  
Children  Committee  is
meeting  again,  only  this  time  at  Derry  Elementary  School  instead  of  
Derry  High.  There  are
sixteen  detectives  from  the  State  Attorney  General's  office  in  town,  
and  a  contingent  of  FBI
agents  as  well  —  I  don't  know  how  many,  and  although  Rademacher  
talks  big,  I  don't  think
he does, either. The curfew's back in effect — '

'Oh  yes.  The  curfew.'  Ben  was  rubbing  the  side  of  his  neck  slowly  
and  deliberately.  'That
did wonders back in '58. I remember that much.'


'  —  and  there  are  Mothers'  Walker  Groups  to  make  sure  that  every  
child  who  goes  to
school,  grades  K  through eight, is chaperoned home. The   News  has gotten 
over two thousand
letters  demanding  a  solution  in  the  last  three  weeks  alone.  And,  of  
course,  the  out-migration
has  begun  again.  I  sometimes  think  that's  the  only  way  to  really  
tell  who's  sincere  about
wanting it stopped and who isn't. The really sincere ones get scared and 
leave.'

'People really are leaving?' Richie asked.

'It  happens  each  time  the  cycle  cranks  up  again.  It's  impossible  to  
tell  just  how  many  go,
because  the  cycle  hasn't  fallen  squarely  in  a  census  year  since  1850 
 or  so.  But  it's  a  fairish
number. They run like kids who just found out the house was haunted for real 
after all.'

'Come  home,  come  home,  come  home,'  Beverly  said  softly.  When  she  
looked  up  from  her
hands it was Bill she looked at, not Mike. 'It wanted us to come back. Why?'

'It  may  want  us  all  back,'  Mike  said  a  little  cryptically.  'Sure.  
It  may.  It may want revenge.

After all, we balked It once before.'

'Revenge . . . or just to set things back in order,' Bill said.

Mike  nodded.  'Things  are  out  of  order  with  your  own  lives,  too,  you 
 know.  None  of  you
left Derry untouched . . . without Its mark on you. All of you forgot what 
happened here, and
your   memories   of   that   summer   are   still   only   fragmentary.   And  
 then  there's  the  passingly
curious fact that you're all rich.'

'Oh, come on now!' Richie said. 'That's hardly — '

'Be  soft,  be  soft,'  Mike  said,  holding  his  hand  up  and  smiling  
faintly.  'I'm  not  accusing  you
of  anything,  just  trying  to  get  the  facts out  on  the  table.  You  are 
 rich  by  the  standards  of  a
small-town librarian who makes just under eleven grand a year after taxes, 
okay?'

Rich  shrugged  the  shoulders  of  his  expensive  suit  uncomfortably.  Ben  
appeared  deeply
absorbed  in  tearing  small  strip s  from  the  edge  of  his  napkin.  No  
one  was  looking  directly  at
Mike except Bill.

'None  of  you  are  in  the  H.  L.  Hunt  class,  certainly,'  Mike  said,  
'but  you  are  all  well-to-do
even  by  the  standards  of  the  American  upper-middle  class.  We're  all  
friends  here,  so  fess  up:
if  there's  one  of  you  who  declared  less  than  ninety  thousand  dollars 
 on  his  or  her  1984  tax
return, raise your hand.'

They  glanced  around  at  each  other  almost  furtively,  embarrassed,  as  
Americans  always
seem  to  be,  by  the  raw  fact  of  their  own  success  —  as  if  cash  
were  hardcooked  eggs  and
affluence  the  farts  that  inevitably  follow  an  overdose  of  same.  Bill  
felt  hot  blood  in  his  cheeks
and  was helpless to stop its rise. He had been paid ten thousand more than the 
sum Mike had
mentioned  just  for  doing  the  first  draft  of  the  Attic Room  
screenplay.  He  had  been  promised
an  additional  twenty  thousand  dollars  each  for  two  rewrites,  if  
needed.  Then  there  were
royalties . . . and the hefty advance on a two-book contract just signed . . . 
how much  had he
declared  on  his  '84  tax  return?  Just  about  eight  hundred  thousand  
dollars,  right?  Enough,
anyway,  to  seem  almost  monstrous  in  light  of  Mike  Hanlon's  stated  
income  of  just  under
eleven thousand a year.

So that's how much they pay you to keep the  lighthouse, Mike old kid, Bill 
thought. Jesus
Christ, somewhere along the line you should have asked for a raise!

Mike  said:  'Bill  Denbrough,  a  successful  novelist  in  a  society  where  
there  are  only  a  few

novelists  and  fewer  still  lucky  enough  to  be  making  a  living  from  
the  craft.  Beverly  Rogan,
who's in the rag trade, a field to which more are called but even fewer chosen. 
She is, in fact,
the most sought-after designer in the middle third of the country right now.'

'Oh,  it's  not  me,'  Beverly said.  She  uttered  a  nervous  little  laugh  
and  lit  a  fresh  cigarette
from  the  smoldering  stub  of  the  old  one.  'It's  Tom.  Tom's  the  one.  
Without  him  I'd  still  be
relining  skirts  and  sewing  up  hems.  I  don't  have  any  business  sense  
at  all,  even  Tom  says  so.
It's  just  .  .  .  you  know,  Tom.  And  luck.'  She  took  a  single  deep  
drag  from  her  cigarette  and
then snuffed it.


'Methinks the lady doth protest too much,' Richie said slyly.

She  turned  quickly  in  her  seat  and  gave  him  a  hard  look,  her  color 
 high.  'Just  what's that
supposed to mean, Richie Tozier?'

'Doan  hits  me,  Miz  Scawlett!'  Richie  cried  in  a  high,  trembling  
Pickaninny  Voice  —  and  in

that  moment  Bill  could  see  with  an  eerie  clarity  the  boy  he  had  
known;  he  was  not  just  a
superseded  presence  lurking  under Rich  Tozier's  grownup  exterior  but  a  
creature  almost  more
real   than   the   man   himself.   'Doan   hits   me!   Lemme   bring   you   
anothuh   mint   joolip,   Miz
Scawlett!  Youse  goan  drink  hit  out  on  de  po'ch  where  it's  be  a  
little  bit  cooluh!  Doan  whup
disyere boy!'

'You're impossible, Richie,' Beverly said coldly. 'You ought to grow up.'

Richie  looked  at  her,  his  grin  fading  slowly  into  uncertainty.  'Until 
 I  came  back  here,'  he
said, 'I thought I had.'

'Rich,  you  may  just  be  the  most  successful  disc  jockey  in  the  
United  States,'  Mike  said.
'You've  certainly  got  LA  in  the  palm  of  your  hand.  On  top  of  that  
there  are  two  syndicated
programs,  one  of  them  a  straight  top-forty  countdown  show,  the  other  
one  something  called
The Freaky Forty —

'You  better  watch  out,   fool,'  Richie  said  in  a  gruff  Mr  T  Voice,  
but  he  was  blushing.  'I'll
make your front and back change places. I'll give you brain-surgery with my 
fist. I'll — '

'Eddie,'  Mike  went  on,  ignoring  Richie,  'you've  got  a  healthy  
limousine  service  in  a  city

where  you  just  about  have  to  elbow  long  black  cars  out  of  your  way 
 when  you  cross  the
street. Two limo companies a week go smash in the Big Apple, but you're doing 
fine.

'Ben, you're probably the most successful young architect in the world.'

Ben opened his mouth, probably to protest, and then closed it again abruptly.

Mike smiled at them, spread his hands. 'I don't want to embarrass anyone, but I 
do want all
the  cards  on  the  table.  There  are  people  who  succeed  young,  and  
there  are  people  who
succeed   in   highly   specialized   jobs   —   if   there   weren't   people  
 who   bucked   the   odds
successfully, I guess everybody would give up. If it was just one or two of 
you, we could pass
it                   off  as  coincidence.  But  it's  not  just  one  or  two; 
 it's  all  of  you,  and  that  includes Stan Uris,
who  was  the  most  successful  young  accountant  in  Atlanta  .  .  .  which 
 means  in  the  whole
South.  My  conclusion  is  that  your  success  stems  from  what  happened  
here  twenty-seven
years  ago.  If  you  had  all  been  exposed  to  asbestos  at  that  time  
and  had all developed lung
cancer  by  now,  the  correlative  would  be  no  less  clear  or  persuasive. 
 Do  any  of  you  want  to
dispute it?'

He looked at them. No one answered.

'All except you,' Bill said. 'What happened to you, Mikey?'
'Isn't it obvious?' He grinned. 'I stayed here.'

'You  kept  the  lighthouse,'  Ben  said.  Bill  jerked  around  and  looked  
at  him,  startled,  but  Ben
was staring hard at Mike and didn't see. 'That doesn't make me feel so good, 
Mike. In fact, it
makes me feel sort of like a bugturd.'

'Amen,' Beverly said.

Mike  shook  his  head  patiently.  'You  have  nothing  to  feel  guilty  
about,  any  of  you.  Do.  you
think  it  was  my  choice  to  stay  here,  any  more  than  it  was  your  
choice —  any  of  you  — to
leave? Hell, we were  kids.  For one reason or  another your parents moved 
away, and you guys
were  part  of  the  baggage  they  took  along.  My  parents  stayed.  And  
was  it  really  their  decision

—  any  of  them)  I  don't  think  so.  How  was  it  decided  who  would  go  
and  who  would  stay?
Was it luck? Fate? It? Some Other? I don't know. But it wasn't us guys. So quit 
it.'

'You're not . . . not bitter?' Eddie asked timidly.

'I've been too busy to be bitter,' Mike said. 'I've spent a long time watching 
and waiting . . .
I  was  watching  and  waiting  even  before  I  knew it, I think, but for the 
last five years or so I've
been  on  what  you  might  call  red  alert.  Since  the  turn  of  the  year  
I've  been  keeping  a  journal.


And when a man writes, he thinks harder . . . or maybe just more specifically. 
And one of the
things  I've  spent  time  writing  and  thinking  about  is  the  nature  of  
It.  It  changes;  we  know  that.
I  think  It  also  manipulates,  and  leaves  Its  marks  on  people  just  by 
 the  nature  of  what  It  is  —
the  way  you  can  smell  a  skunk  on  you  even  after  a  long bath, if it 
lets go its bag of scent too
near  you.  The  way  a  grasshopper  will  spit  bug  juice  into  your  palm  
if  you  catch  it  in  your
hand.'

Mike  slowly  unbuttoned  his  shirt  and  spread  it  wide.  They  could  all  
see  the  pinkish  scrawls
of scar across the smooth brown skin of his chest between the nipples.

'The way claws leave scars,' he said.

'The  werewolf,'  Richie  almost  moaned.  'Oh  Christ,  Big  Bill,  the  
werewolf!  When  we  went
back to Neibolt Street!'

'What?' Bill asked. He sounded like a man called out of a dream. 'What, Richie?'
'Don't you remember?

'No . . . do you?'

'I . . . I almost do . . . ' Looking both confused and scared, Richie subsided.

'Are  you  saying  this  thing  isn't  evil?'  Eddie  asked  Mike  abruptly.  
He  was  staring  at  the
scars as if hypnotized. 'That it's just some part of the . . . the natural 
order?'

'It's  no  part  of  a  natural  order  we  understand  or  condone,'  Mike  
said,  rebuttoning  his  shirt,
'and I see no reason to operate on any other basis than the one we  do  
understand: that It kills,
kills  children,  and  that's  wrong.  Bill  understood  that  before  any  of  
us.  Do  you  remember,
Bill?'

'I remember that I wanted to kill It,' Bill said, and for the first time (and 
ever after) he heard

the  pronoun  gain  proper-noun  status  in  his  own  voic e.  'But  I  didn't 
 have  much  of  a  world-
view  on  the  subject,  if  you  see  what  I  mean  —  I  just  wanted  to  
kill  It  because  It  killed
George.'

'And do you still?'

Bill   considered   this   carefully.   He   looked   down   at   his   spread  
 hands   on   the   table   and
remembered  George  in  his  yellow  slicker,  his  hood  up,  the  paper  boat 
 with  its  thin  glaze  of
paraffin in one hand. He looked up at Mike.

'M-M-More than ever,' he said.

Mike nodded as if this were exactly what he had expected. 'It left Its mark on 
us. It worked
Its  will  on  us,  just  as  It  has  worked  Its  will  on  this  whole  
town,  day  in  and  day  out,  even
during  those  long  periods  when  It  is  asleep  or  hibernating  or  
whatever  It  does  between  Its
more . . . more lively periods.'

Mike raised one finger.

'But if It worked Its will on us, at some point, in some way,  we aho worked 
our will on It.
We  stopped  It  before  It  was  done  — I know we did. Did we weaken It? Hurt 
It? Did we, in
fact,  almost  kill  It?  I  think  we  did.  I  think  we  came  so  close  to 
 killing  It  that we went away
thinking we had.'

'But you don't remember that part either, do you?' Ben asked.

'No.  I  can  remember  everything  up  until  August  15th  1958  with  almost 
 perfect  clarity.  But
from  then  until  September  4th  or  so,  when  school  was  called  in  
again,  everything  is  a  total
blank.  It  isn't  murky  or  hazy;  it  is  just  completely  gone.  With  one 
 exception:  I  seem  to
remember Bill screaming about something called the dead-lights.'

Bill's  arm  jerked  convulsively.  It  struck  one  of  his  empty  beer  
bottles,  and  the  bottle
shattered on the floor like a bomb.

'Did you cut yourself?' Beverly asked. She had half-risen.

'No,'  he  said.  His  voice  was  harsh  and  dry.  His  arms  had  broken  
out  in  gooseflesh.  It
seemed that his skull had somehow grown; he could feel

(the deadlights)


it pressing out against the stretched skin of his face in steady numbing throbs.
'I'll pick up the — '

'No,   just   sit   down.'   He   wanted   to   look   at   her   and   
couldn't.   He   couldn't   take
his eyes off Mike.

'Do you remember the deadlights, Bill?' Mike asked softly.

'No,'  he  said.  His  mouth  felt  the  way  it  did  when  the  dentist  got  
a  little  too  enthusiastic  with
the novocaine.

'You will.'

'I hope to God I don't.'

'You will anyway,' Mike said. 'But for now . . . no. Not me, either. Do any of 
you?'
One by one they shook their heads.

'But we did  something,'  Mike  said  quietly.  'At  some  point  we  were  
able  to  exercise  some
sort  of  group  will.  At  some  point  we  achieved  some  special  
understanding,  whether  conscious
or  unconscious.'  He  stirred  restlessly.  'God,  [  wish  Stan  was  here.  
I  have  a  feeling  that  Stan,
with his ordered mind, might have had some idea.'

'Maybe  he  did,'  Beverly  said.  'Maybe  that's  why  he  killed  himself.  
Maybe  he  understood
that if there was magic, it wouldn't work for grown-ups.'

'I  think  it  could,  though,'  Mike  said.  'Because  there's  one  other  
thing  we  six  have  in
common. I wonder if any of you have realized what that is.'

It was Bill's turn to open his mouth and then shut it again.

'Go on,' Mike said. 'You know what it is. I can see it on your face.'

'I'm not sure I know,' Bill replied, 'but I think w-we're all childless. Is 
that ih-it?'
There was a moment of shocked silence.

'Yeah,' Mike said. 'That's it.'

'Jesus  Christ  Almighty!'  Eddie  spoke  up  indignantly.  'What  in  the  
world  does  that  have to
do  with  the  price  of  beans  in  Peru?  What  gave  you  the  idea  that  
everyone  in  the  world  has  to
have kids? That's nuts!'

'Do you and your wife have children?' Mike asked.

'If  you've  been  keeping  track  of  us  all  the  way  you  said,  then  you 
 know  goddam  well  we
don't. But I still say it doesn't mean a damn thing.'

'Have you tried to have children?'

'We  don't  use  birth  control,  if  that's  what  you  mean.'  Eddie  spoke  
with  an  oddly  moving
dignity,  but  his  cheeks  were  flushed.  'It  just  so  happens  that  my  
wife  is  a  little  .  .  .  Oh  hell.
She's  a  lot  overweight.  We  went  to  see  a  doctor  and  she told  us my  
wife might  never have
kids if she didn't lose some weight. Does that make us criminals?'

'Take it easy, Eds,' Richie soothed, and leaned toward him.

'Don't call me Eds and don't you  dare  pinch my cheek!' he cried, rounding on 
Richie. 'You
know I hate that! I always hated it!'

Richie recoiled, blinking.

'Beverly?' Mike asked. 'What about you and Tom?'

'No children,' she said. 'Also no birth control. Tom wants kids . . . and so do 
I, of course,'
she  added  hastily,  glancing  around  at  them  quickly.  Bill  thought  her  
eyes  seemed  overbright,
almost the eyes of an actress giving a good performance. 'It just hasn't 
happened yet.'

'Have you had those tests?' Ben asked her.

'Oh yes, of course,' she said, and uttered a light laugh that was almost a 
titter. And in one of
those   leaps   of   comprehension   that   sometimes  come  to  people  who  
are  gifted  with  both
curiosity  and  insight,  Bill  suddenly  understood  a  great  deal  about  
Beverly  and  her  husband
Tom,  alias  the  Greatest  Man  in  the  World.  Beverly  had  gone  to  have  
fertility  tests.  His  guess
was  that  the  Greatest  Man in the World had refused to entertain even for a 
moment the notion
that there might be something wrong with the sperm being manufactured in the 
Sacred Sacs.


'What  about  you  and  your  wife,  Big  Bill?'  Rich  asked.  'Been  trying?' 
 They  all  looked  at
him  curiously  .  .  .  because  his  wife  was  someone  they  knew.  Audra  
was  by  no  means  the
best-known  or  the  best-loved  actress  in  the  world,  but  she  was  
certainly  part  of  the  celebrity
coinage  that  had  somehow  replaced  talent  as  a  medium  of  exchange  in  
the  latter   half of the
twentieth  century;  there  had  been  a  picture  of  her  in  People  
magazine when she cut her hair
short,  and  during  a  particularly  boring  stretch  in  New  York  (the  
play  she  had  been  planning  to
do  Off  Broadway  fell  through)  she  had  done  a  week-long  stint on  
Holly wood Squares,  over
her  agent's  strenuous  objections.  She  was  a  stranger  whose  lovely  
face  was  known  to  them.
He thought Beverly looked particularly curious.

'We've  been  trying  off  and  on  for  the  last  six  years,'  Bill  said.  
'For  the  last  eight months or
so it's been off, because of the movie we were doing — Attic Room, it's 
called.'

'You   know,   we   run   a   little   entertainment   syndic   every   day   
from   five-fifteen   in   the
afternoon  until  five-thirty,'  Richie  said.   'Seein'  Stars,   it's  
called.  The y  had  a  feature  on  that
damned  movie  just  last  week  —  Husband  and  Wife  Working  Happily  
Together  kind  of  thing.
They said both of your names and I never made the connection. Funny, isn't it?'

'Very,'  Bill  said.  'Anyway,  Audra  said  it  would  be  just  our  luck  if 
 she  caught  pregnant
while  we  were  in  preproduction  and  she  had  to  do  ten  weeks  of  
strenuous  acting  and  being
morning-sick  at  the  same  time.  But  we  want  kids,  yes.  And  we've  
tried  quite  hard.'  'Had
fertility tests?' Ben asked.

'Uh-huh.  Four  years  ago,  in  New  York.  The  doctors  discovered  a  very  
small  benign  tumor
in  Audra's  womb,  and  they  said  it  was  a  lucky  thing  because,  
although  it  wouldn't  have
prevented  her  from  getting  pregnant,  it  might  have  caused  a  tubal  
pregnancy.  She  and  I  are
both fertile, though.'

Eddie repeated stubbornly, 'It doesn't prove a goddam thing.'
'Suggestive, though,' Ben murmured.

'No  little  accidents  on  your  front,  Ben?'  Bill  asked.  He  was  shocked 
 and  amused  to  find

that his mouth had very nearly called Ben Haystack instead.

'I've  never  been  married,  I've  always  been  careful,  and  there  have  
been  no  paternity  suits,'
Ben said. 'Beyond that I don't think there's any real way of telling.'

'You  want  to  hear  a  funny  story?'  Richie  asked.  He  was  smiling,  but 
 ht ere was no smile in
his eyes.

'Sure,' Bill said. 'You were always good at the funny stuff, Richie.'

'Your face and me own buttocks, boyo,' Richie said in the Irish Cop's Voice. It 
was a  great
Irish  Cop's  Voice.  You've  improved  out  of  all  measure,  Richie,  Bill 
thought.  As  a  kid,  you
couldn't do an Irish Cop no matter how you busted your brains. Except once . . 
. or twice . . .
when

(the deadlights)
was that?

'Your  face  and  me  own  buttocks;  just  keep  rememb  'rin  that  
com-pay-ri-son,  me  foine

bucko.'

Ben  Hanscom  suddenly  held  his  nose  and  cried  in  a  high  quavering  
boyish  voice:  'Beep-
beep, Richie! Beep-beep! Beep-beep!'

After a moment, laughing, Eddie held his own nose and joined in. Beverly did 
the same.
'Awright! Awright!' Richie cried, laughing himself. 'Awright, I give up! 
Chrissake!'

'Oh  man,'  Eddie  said.  He  collapsed  back  in  his  chair,  laughing  so  
hard  he  was  almost
crying. 'We gotcha that time, Trashmouth. Way to go, Ben.'

Ben was smiling but he looked a little bewildered.

'Beep-beep,'  Bev  said,  and  giggled.  'I  forgot  all  about  that.  We  
always  used  to  beep  you,
Richie.'


'You  guys  never  appreciated  true  talent,  that's  all,'  Richie  said  
comfortably.  As  in  the  old
days,  you  could  knock  him  off-balance,  but  he  was  like  one  of  those 
 inflatable  Joe  Palooka
dolls  with  sand  in  the  base  —  he  floated  upright  again  almost  at  
once.  'That  was  one  of  your
little contributions to the Losers' Club, wasn't it, Haystack?'

'Yeah, I guess it was.'

'What  a  man!'  Richie  said  in  a  trembling,  awestruck  voice  and  then  
began  to  salaam  over
the  table,  nearly  sticking  his  nose  in  his  tea-cup  each  time  he  
went  down.  'What  a  man!  Oh
chillun, what a man!'

'Beep-beep,  Richie,'  Ben  said  solemnly,  and  then  exploded  laughter  in  
a  he arty  baritone

utterly unlike his wavering childhood voice. 'You're the same old roadrunner.'

You guys want to hear this story or not?' Richie asked. 'I mean, no big deal 
one way or the
other.  Beep  away  if  you  want  to.  I  can  take  abuse.  I  mean,  you're  
looking at a man who once
did an interview with Ozzy Osbourne.'

'Tell it,' Bill said. He glanced over at Mike and saw that Mike looked happier  
— or more at
rest  —  since  the  luncheon  had  begun.  Was  it  because  he  saw  the  
almost  unconscious  knitting-
together  that  was  happening,  the  sort  of  easy  falling  —  back  into  
old  roles  that  almost  never
happened  when  old  chums  got  together?  Bill  thought  so.  And  he  
thought,  If there are certain
preconditions  for  the  belief  in  magic  that  makes  it  possible  to  use  
the  magic, then maybe
those preconditions will inevitably arrange themselves.  It was not a very 
comforting thought.
It made him feel like a man strapped to the nosecone of a guided missile.

Beep-beep indeed.

'Well,'  Richie  was  saying,  'I  could  make  this  lo ng  and  sad  or  I  
could  give  you  the  Blondie
and  Dagwood  comic-strip  version,  but  I'll  settle  for  something  in  the 
 middle.  The  year  after  I
moved  out  to  California  I  met  a  girl,  and  we  fell  pretty  hard  for  
each  other.  Started  living
together. She was on the  pill  at  first,  but  it  made  her  feel  sick  
almost  all  the  time.  She  talked
about  getting  an  IUD,  but  I  wasn't  too  crazy  about  that   —  the  
first  stories  about  how  they
might not be completely safe were just starting to come out in the papers.

'We  had  talked  a  lot  about  kids,  and  had  pretty  well  decided  we  
didn't  want  them  even  if
we   decided   to   legalize   the   relationship.   Irresponsible   to   bring 
  kids   into   such   a   shitty,
dangerous,  overpopulated  world  .  .  .  and  blah-blah-blah,  
babble-babble-babble,  let's  go  out
and  put  a  bomb  in  the  men's  room  of  the  Bank  of  America  and  then  
come  on  back  to  the
crashpad   and   smoke   some   dope   and   talk   about   the   difference   
between   Maoism   and
Trotskyism, if you see what I mean.

'Or  maybe  I'm  being  too  hard  on  both  of  us.  Shit,  we were young and 
reasonably idealistic.
The  upshot  was  that  I  got  my  wires  cut,  as  the  Beverly  Hills  crowd 
 puts  it  with  their  unfailing
vulgar  chic.  The  operation  went  with  no  problem  and  I  had  no  
adverse  aftereffects.  There  can
be,  you  know.  I  had  a  friend whose balls swelled up to roughly the size 
of the tires on a 1959
Cadillac.  I  was  gonna  give  him  a  pair  of  suspenders  and  a  couple  
of  barrels  for  his  birthday

— sort of a designer truss — but they went down before then.'

'All  put  with  your  customary  tact  and  dignity,'  Bill  remarked,  and  
Beverly  began  to  laugh
again.

Richie  offered  a  large,  sincere  smile.  'Thank  you,  Bill,  for  those  
words  of  support.  The

word "fuck" was used two hundred and six times in your last book. I counted.'

'Beep-beep,   Trashmouth,'   Bill   said   solemnly,   and   they   all   
laughed.   Bill   found   it   nearly
impossible to believe they had been talking about dead children less than ten 
minutes ago.

'Press onward, Richie,' Ben said. 'The hour groweth late.'

'Sandy  and  I  lived  together for two and a half years,' Richie went on. 
'Came really close to
getting  married  twice.  As  things  turned  out,  I  guess  we  saved  
ourselves  a  lot  of  heartache  and
all  that  community-property  bullshit  by  keeping  it  simple.  She  got  an 
 offer  to  join  a  corporate
law-firm in Washington around the same time I got an offer to come to KLAD as a 
weekend


jock — not much, but a foot in the door. She told me it was her big chance and 
I had to be the
most  insensitive  male  chauvinist  oinker  in  the  United  States  to  be  
dragging  my  feet,  and
furthermore  she'd  had  it  with  California  anyway.  I  told  her  I  also  
had  a  chance.  So  we
thrashed  it  out,  and  we  trashed  each  other  out,  and  at  the  end  of  
all  the  thrashing  and  trashing
Sandy went.

'About  a  year  after  that  I  decided  to try and get the vasectomy 
reversed. No real reason for
it,  and  I  knew  from  the  stuff  I'd  read  that  the  chances  were  
pretty  spotty,  but  I  thought  what
the hell.'

'You were seeing someone steadily then?' Bill asked.

'No — that's the funny part of it,' Richie said, frowning. 'I just woke up one 
day with this . .

. I dunno, this hobbyhorse about getting it reversed.'

'You  must  have  been  nuts,'  Eddie  said.  'General  anesthetic  instead  of 
 a  local?  Surgery?

Maybe a week in the hospital afterward?'

'Yeah,  the  doctor  told  me  all  of  that  stuff,'  Richie  replied.  'And  
I  told  him  I  wanted  to  go
ahead  anyway.  I  don't  know  why.  The  doc  asked  me  if  I  understood  
the  aftermath  of  the
operation  was  sure  to  be  painful  while  the  result  was  only  going  to 
 be  a  coin-toss at best. I
said    I did. He said okay, and I asked him when  — my attitude being the 
sooner the better, you
know.  So  he  says  hold  your  horses,  son,  hold  your  horses,  the  first 
 step  is  to  get  a  sperm
sample  just  to  make  sure  the  reversal  operation  is  necessary. I said, 
"Come on, I had the exam
after   the   vasectomy.   It   worked."   He   told   me   that   sometimes   
the   vasa   reconnected
spontaneously.  "Yo  mamma!"  I  says.  "Nobody  ever  told  me  that."  He  
said  the  chances  were
very        small  —  infinitesimal,  really  —  but  because  the  operation  
was  so  serious,  we  ought  to
check it out. So I popped into the men's room with a Frederick's of Hollywood 
catalogue and
jerked off into a Dixie cup — '

'Beep-beep, Richie,' Beverly said.

'Yeah,  you're  right,'  Richie  said.  'The  part  about  the  Frederick's  
catalogue  is  a  lie  —  you
never  find  anything  that  good  in  a  doctor's  office.  Anyway,  the  doc  
called  me  three  days  later
and asked me which I wanted first, the good news or the bad news.

'"Gimme the good news first," I said.

'"The  good  news  is  the  operation  won't  be  necessary,"  he  said.  "The  
bad  news  is  that
anybody  you've  been  to  bed  with  over  the  last  two  or  three  years  
could  hit  you  with  a
paternity suit pretty much at will."

'"Are you saying what I think you're saying?" I asked him.

'"I'm  telling  you  that  you  aren't  shooting  blanks  and  haven't  been  
for  quite  awhile  now,"  he
said.  "Millions  of  little  wigglies  in  your  sperm  sample.  Your  days  
of  going  gaily  in  bareback
with no questions asked have temporarily come to an end, Richard.

'I thanked him and hung up. Then I called Sandy in Washington.

'"Rich!"  she  says  to  me,'  and  Richie's  voice  suddenly  became  the  
voice  of  this  girl  Sandy
whom  none  of  them  had  ever  met.  It  was  not  an  imitation  or even  a  
likeness,  exactly; it was
more like an auditory painting. ' "It's great to hear from you! I got married!"

'"Yeah,  that's  great,"  I  said.  "You  should  have  let  me  know.  I  
would  have  sent  you  a
blender."

'She goes, "Same old Richie, always full of gags."

'So  I  said  "Sure,  same  old  Richie,  always  full  of  gags.  By  the  
way,  Sandy,  you  didn't
happen to have a kid or anything after you left LA, did you? Or maybe an 
unscheduled d and
c, or something?"

'"That  gag  isn't  so  funny,  Rich,"  she  said,  and  I  had  a  brainwave 
that she was getting ready
to hang up on me, so I told her what happened. She started laughing, only this 
time it was real
hard  —  she  was  laughing  the  way  I  always  used  to  laugh  with  you  
guys,  like  somebody  had
told  her  the  world's  biggest  bellybuster.  So  when  she  finally  starts  
slowing  down  I  ask  her


what  in  God's  name  is  funny.  "It's  just  so  wonderful,"  she  said.  
"This  time  the  joke's  on  you.
After  all  these  years  the  joke  is  finally  on  Records  Tozier.  How  
many  bastards  have  you  sired
since I came east, Rich?"

'"I take it that means you still haven't experienced the joys of motherhood?" I 
ask her.
'"I'm due in July," she says. "Were there any more questions?"

'"Yeah,"  I  go.  "When  did  you  change  your  mind  about  the  immorality  
of  bringing  children

into such a shitty world?"

'"When I finally met a man who wasn't a shit," she answers, and hangs up.'

Bill  began  to  laugh.  He  laughed  until  tears  rolled  down  his  cheeks.  
'Yeah,'  Richie  said.  'I
think  she  cut  it  off  quick  so  she'd  really  get  the last word, but she 
could have hung on the line
all day. I know when I've been aced. I went back to the doctor a week later and 
asked him if
he  could  be  a  little  clearer  on  the  odds  against  that  sort  of  
spontaneous  regeneration.  He  said
he'd  talked  with  some  of  his  colleagues  about  the  matter.  It  turned  
out  that  in  the  three-year
period   1980-82,   the   California   branch   of   the   AMA   logged   
twenty-three   reports   of
spontaneous  regeneration.  Six  of  those  turned  out  to  be  simply  
botched  operations.  Six  others
were  either hoaxes or cons  —  guys looking to take a bite out of some 
doctor's bank account.
So . . . eleven real ones in three years.'

'Eleven out of how many?' Beverly asked.

'Twenty-eight thousand six hundred and eighteen,' Richie said calmly.
Silence around the table.

'So  I  went  and  beat  Irish  Sweepstakes  odds,'  Richie  said,  'and  still 
 no  kid  to  show  for  it.

That give you any good chucks, Eds?'

Eddie began stubbornly: 'It still doesn't prove — '

'No,'  Bill  said,  'it  doesn't  prove  a  thing.  But  it  certainly  
suggests  a  link.  The  question  is,
what do we do now? Have you thought about that, Mike?'

'I've  thought  about  it,  sure,'  Mike  said,  'but  it  was  impossible  to  
decide  anything  until  you

all  got  together  again  and  talked,  the  way  you've  been  doing.  There  
was  no  way  I  could
predict how this reunion would go until it actually happened.'

He paused for a long time, looking thoughtfully at them.

'I've  got  one  idea,'  he  said,  'but  before  I  tell  you  what  it  is,  
I  think  we  have  to  agree on
whether or not we have business to do here. Do we want to try again to do what 
we tried to
do  once  before?  Do  we  want  to  try  to  kill  It  again?  Or  do  we  
just  divide  the  check  up  six
ways and go back to what we were doing?'

'It seems as if — ' Beverly began, but Mike shook his head at her. He wasn't 
done.

'You  have  to  understand  that  our  chances  of  success  are  impossible  
to  predict.  I  know
they're not good, just as I know they would have been a little better if Stan 
was here, too. Still
not  real  good, but better. With Stan gone, the circle we made that day is 
broken. I don't really
think we can destroy Itf or even send It away for a little while, as we did 
before, with a broken
circle.  I  think  It  will  kill  us,  one  by  one  by  one,  and  probably  
in  some  extremely  horrible
ways.  As  children  we  made  a  complete  circle  in  some  way  I  don't  
understand  even  now.  I
think  that,  if  we  agree  to  go  ahead,  we'll  have  to  try  to  form  a  
smaller  circle.  I  don't  know  if
that can be done. I believe it might be possible to  think we'd done it, only 
to discover  — when
it was too late — well . . . that it was too late.'

Mike  regarded  them  again,  eyes  sunken  and  tired  in  his  brown  face.  
'So  I  think  we  need  to
take  a  vote.  Stay  and  try  it  again,  or  go  home.  Those  are  the  
choices.  I  got  you  here  on  the
strength of an old promise I wasn't even sure you'd remember, but I can't hold 
you here on the
strength of that promise. The results of that would be worse and more of it.'

He  looked  at  Bill,  and  in  that  moment  Bill  understood  what  was  
coming.  He  dreaded  it,
was  helpless  to  stop  it,  and  then,  with  the  same  feeling  of  relief  
he  imagined  must  come  to  a
suicide  when  he  takes  his  hands  off  the  wheel  of  the  speeding  car  
and  simply  uses  them  to


cover  his  eyes,  he  accepted  it.  Mike  had  gotten  them  here,  Mike  had 
 laid  it  all  neatly  out  for
them  .  .  .  and  now  he  was  relinquishing  the  mantle  of  leadership.  
He  intended  that  mantle  to
go back to the person who had worn it in 1958.

'What do you say, Big Bill? Call the question.'

'Before  I  do,'  Bill  said,  'd-does everyone  understand  the  question?  
You  were  going  to  say
something, Bev.'

She shook her head.

'All right; I g-guess  the  question  is,  do  we  stay  and  fight  or  do  we 
 forget  the  whole  thing?

Those in favor of staying?'

No  one  at  the  table  moved  at  all  for  perhaps  five  seconds,  and  
Bill  was  reminded  of
auctions he had attended where the price on an item suddenly soared into the 
stratosphere and
those  who  didn't  want  to  bid  anymore  almost  literally  played  statues; 
 one  was  afraid  to
scratch an itch or wave a fly off the end of one's nose for fear the auctioneer 
would take it for
another five grand or twenty-five.

Bill thought of Georgie, Georgie who had meant no one any harm, who had only 
wanted to
get   out   of   the   house  after  being  cooped  up  all  week,  Georgie   
with  his  color  high,  his
newspaper  boat  in  one  hand,  snapping  the  buckles  of  his  yellow  
rainslicker  with  die  other,
Georgie   thanking   him   .   .   .   and   then   bending   over   and   
kissing   Bill's   fever-heated  cheek:
Thanks, Bill. It's a neat boat.

He  felt  the  old  rage  rise  in  him,  but  he  was  older  now  and  his  
perspective  was  wider.  It
wasn't  just  Georgie  now.  A  horrid  slew  of  names  marched  through  his  
head:  Betty  Ripsom,
found   frozen   into   the   ground,   Cheryl   Lamonica,   fished  out  of  
the  Kenduskeag,  Matthew
Clements,  torn  from  his  tricycle,  Veronica  Grogan,  nine  years  old  and 
 found  in  a  sewer,
Steven Johnson, Lisa Albrecht, all the others, and God only knew how many of 
the missing.

He raised his hand slowly and said, 'Let's kill It. This time let's really kill 
It.'

For  a  moment  his  hand  hung  there  alone,  like  the  hand  of  the  only  
kid  in  class  who  knows
the right answer, the one all the other kids hate. Then Richie sighed, raised 
his own hand, and
said: 'What the hell. It can't be any worse than interviewing Ozzy Osbourne.'

Beverly  raised  her  hand.  Her  color  was  back  now,  but  in  hectic  
patches  that  flared  along

her cheekbones. She looked both tremendously excited and scared to death.

Mike raised his hand.
Ben raised his.

Eddie  Kaspbrak  sat  back  in  his  chair,  looking  as  if  he  wished  he  
could  actually  melt  into  it
and  thus  disappear.  His  face,  thin  and  delicate-looking,  was  miserably 
 afraid  as  he  looked
first  right  and  then  left  and  then  back  to  Bill.  For  a  moment  Bill 
 felt  sure  Eddie  was  simply
going  to  push  back  his  chair,  rise,  and  bolt  from  the  room  without  
looking  back.  Then  he
raised one hand in the air and grasped his aspirator tightly in the other.

'Way  to  go,  Eds,'  Richie  said.  'We're  really  gonna  have  ourselves  
some  chucks  this  time,  I
bet.'

'Beep-beep, Richie,' Eddie said in a wavering voice.

6

The Losers Get Dessert

'So what's your one idea, Mike?' Bill asked. The mood had been broken by Rose, 
the hostess,
who had come in with a dish of fortune cookies. She looked around at the six 
people who had
their  hands  in  the  air  with  a  carefully  polite  lack  of  curiosity.  
They  lowered  them  hastily,  and
no one said anything until Rose was gone again.

'It's simple enough,' Mike said, 'but it might be pretty damn dangerous, too.'


'Spill it,'Richie said.

'I think we ought to split up for the rest of the day. I think each of us ought 
to go back to
the place in Derry he or she remembers best . . . outside the Barrens, that is. 
I don't think any
of us should go there — not yet. Think of it as a series of walking-tours, if 
you like.'

'What's the purpose, Mike?' Ben asked.

'I'm  not  entirely  sure.  You  have  to  understand  that  I'm  going  pretty 
 much  on  intuition  here

— '

'But this has got a good beat and you can dance to it,' Richie said.

The  others  smiled.  Mike  did  not;  he  nodded  instead.  'That's  as  good  
a  way  of  putting  it  as
any.  Going  on  intuition  is  like  picking  up  a  beat  and  dancing  to  
it.  Using  intuition  is  a  hard
thing  for  grownups  to  do,  and  that's  the  main  reason  I  think  it  
might  be  the  right  thing  for  us
to  do.  Kids,  after  all,  operate  on  it  about  eighty  percent  of  the  
time,  at  least  until  they're
fourteen or so.'

'You're talking about plugging back into the situation,' Eddie said.

'I  suppose  so.  Anyway,  that's  my  idea.  If  no  specific  place  to  go  
comes  to  you,  just  follow
your  feet  and  see  where  they  take  you.  Then  we  meet  tonight,  at  
the  library,  and  talk  over
what happened.'

'If anything happens,' Ben said.
'Oh, I think things will.'

'What sort of things?' Bill asked.

Mike  shook  his  head.  'I  have  no  idea.  I  think  whatever  happens  is  
apt  to  be  unpleasant.  I
think  it's  even  possible  that  one  of  us  may  not  turn  up  at  the  
library  tonight.  No  reason  for
thinking that . . . except that intuition thing again.'

Silence greeted this.

'Why  alone?'  Beverly  asked  finally.  'If  we're  supposed  to  do  this  as 
 a  group,  why  do  you
want  us  to  start  alone,  Mike?  Especially  if  the  risk  really  turns  
out  to  be  as  high  as  you think
it might be?'

'I think I can answer that,' Bill said.
'Go ahead, Bill,' Mike said.

'It  started  alone  for  each  of  us,'  Bill  said  to  Beverly.  'I  don't  
remember  everything   — not
yet  —  but  I  sure  remember  that  much.  The  picture  in  George's  room  
that  moved.  Ben's
mummy.  The  leper  that  Eddie  saw  under  the  porch  on  Neibolt  Street.  
Mike  finding  the  blood
on  the  grass  near  the  Canal  in  Bassey  Park.  And  the  bird  .  .  .  
there  was  something  about  a
bird, wasn't there, Mike?'

Mike nodded grimly.
'A big bird.'

'Yes, but not as friendly as the one on Sesame Street.'

Richie  cackled  wildly.  'Derry's  answer  to  James  Brown  Gets  Off  A  
Good  One!  Oh  chillun,
is we blessed or is we blessed!'

'Beep-beep, Richie,' Mike said, and Richie subsided.

'For  you  it  was  the  voice  from  the  pipe  and  the  blood  that  came  
out  of  the  drain,'  Bill  said
to Beverly. 'And for Richie . . . ' But here he paused, puzzled.

'I  must  be  the  exception  that  proves  the  rule,  Big  Bill,'  Richie  
said.  'The  first  time  I came in
contact  with  anything  that  summer  that  was  weird   —  I  mean  really  
big-league weird  — was
in  George's  room,  with  you.  When  you  and  I went back to your house that 
day and looked at
his   photo   album.   The   picture   of   Center   Street   by   the   Canal  
 started   to  move.  Do  you
remember?'

'Yes,' Bill said. 'But are you sure there was nothing before that, Richie? 
Nothing at all?'

'I  —  '  Something  flickered  in  Richie's  eyes.  He  said  slowly,  'Well,  
there  was  the  day  Henry
and  his  friends  chased  me  —  before  the  end of school, this was, and I 
got away from them in


the  toy  department  of  Freese's.  I  went  up  by  City  Center  and  sat  
down  on  a  park  bench  for
awhile and I thought I saw . . . but that was just something I dreamed.'

'What was it?' Beverly asked.

'Nothing,'  Richie  said,  almost  brusquely.  'A  dream.  Really.'  He  looked 
 at  Mike.  'I  don't
mind taking a walk, though. It'll kill the afternoon. Views of the old 
homestead.'

'So we're agreed?' Bill asked.

They nodded.

'And we'll meet at the library tonight at . . . when do you suggest, Mike?'

'Seven  o'clock.  Ring  the  bell  if  you're  late.  The  libe  closes  at  
seven  on  weekdays  until
summer vacation starts for the kids.'

'Seven  it  is,'  Bill  said,  and  let  his  eyes  range  soberly  over  them. 
 'And  be careful. You want

to   remember   that   none   of   us   really   knows   what   we're   
d-d-doing.   Think   of   this   as
reconnaissance. If you should see something, don't fight. Run.'

'I'm a lover, not a fighter,' Richie said in a dreamy Michael Jackson Voice.

'Well,  if  we're  going  to  do  it,  we  ought  to  get  going,'  Ben  said.  
A  small  smile  pulled  up  the
left  corner  of  his  mouth.  It  was  more  bitter  than  amused.  'Although  
I'll  be  damned  if  I  could
tell  you  right  this  minute  where  I'm  going  to  go,  if  the  Barrens  
are  out.  That was the best of it
for  me  —  going  down  there  with  you  guys.'  His  eyes  moved  to  
Beverly,  held  there  for  a
moment,  moved  away.  'I  can't  think  of  anyplace  else  that  means  very  
much  to  me.  Probably
I'll   just wander around for a couple of hours, looking at buildings and 
getting wet feet.'

'You'll  find  a  place  to  go,  Haystack,'  Richie  said.  'Visit  some  of  
your  old  food-stops and
gas up.'

Ben   laughed.   'My   capacity's   gone   down   a   lot   since   I   was   
eleven.   I'm   so   full
you guys may just have to roll me out of here.'

'Well, I'm all set,' Eddie said.

'Wait  a  sec!'  Beverly  cried  as  they  began  to  push  back  from  their  
chairs.  'The  fortune
cookies! Don't forget those!'

'Yeah,'  Richie  said.  'I  can  see  mine  now.  YOU   WILL   SOON   BE   
EATEN  UP  BY  A  LARGE
MONSTER. HAVE A NICE DAY.'

They  laughed  and  Mike  passed  the  little  bowl  of  fortune  cookies  to  
Richie,  who  took  one
and  then  sent  it  on  around  the  table.  Bill  noticed  that  no  one  
opened  his  or  her  cookie  until
each  had  one;  they  sat  with  the  little  hat-shaped  cookies either in 
front of them or held in their
hands,  and  even  as  Beverly,  still  smiling,  picked  hers  up,  Bill  felt 
 a  cry  rising  in  his  throat:
No! No, don't do that, its part of it, put it back, don't open it!

But  it  was  too  late.  Beverly  had  broken hers  open,  Ben  was  doing  
the  same  to  his,  Eddie
was  cutting  into  his  with  the  edge  of  his  fork,  and  just  before  
Beverly's  smile  turned  to  a
grimace of horror Bill had time to think:  We knew, somehow we  knew, because 
no one simply
bit into his or her fortune cookie. That would have been the normal thing to 
do, but no one
did it. Somehow, some pan of us still remembers . . . everything.

And  he  found  that  insensate  underknowledge  somehow  the  most  horrifying 
 realization  of
all;  it  spoke  more  eloquently  than  Mike  could  have  about  how  surely  
and  deeply  It  had
touched each one of them . . . and how Its touch was still upon them.

Blood  spurted  up  from  Beverly's  fortune  cookie  as  if  from  a  slashed  
artery.  It  splashed
across  her  hand  and  then  gouted  onto  the  white  napery  which  covered  
the  table,  staining  it  a
bright red that sank in and then spread out in grasping pink fingers.

Eddie  Kaspbrak  uttered  a  strangled  cry  and  pushed  himself  away  from  
the  table  with  such
a  sudden  revolted  confusion  of  arms  and  legs  that  his  chair  nearly  
tipped  over.  A  huge  bug,
its  chitinous  carapace  an  ugly  yellow-brown,  was  pushing  its  way  out  
of  his  fortune  cookie  as
if  from  a  cocoon.  Its  obsidian  eyes  stared  blindly  forward.  As  it  
lurched  onto  Eddie's  bread-
and-butter  plate,  cookie  crumbs  fell  from  its  back  in  a  little  
shower  that  Bill  heard  clearly  and


which  came  back  to  haunt  his  dreams  when  he  slept  for  awhile  later  
that  afternoon.  As  it
freed  itself  entirely  it  rubbed  its  thin  rear  legs  together,  
producing  a  dry  reedy  hum,  and Bill
realized  it  was  some  sort  of  terribly  mutated  cricket.  It  lumbered  
to  the  edge  of  the  dish  and
tumbled onto the tablecloth on its back.

'Oh  God!'  Richie  managed  in  a  choked  voice.  'Oh  God  Big  Bill  it's  
an  eye  dear  God  it's  an
eye a fucking eye —

Bill's  head  snapped  around  and  he  saw  Richie  staring  down  at  his  
fortune  cookie,  his  lips
drawn  back  from  his  teeth  in  a  kind  of  sickened  leer.  A  chunk  of  
his  cookie's  glazed  surface
had  fallen  onto  the  tablecloth,  revealing  a  hole  from  which  a  human  
eyeball  stared  with
glazed  intensity.  Cookie  crumbs  were  scattered  across  its  blank  brown  
iris  and  embedded  in
its sclera.

Ben Hanscom threw his  —  not a calculated throw but the startled reaction of a 
person who
has  been  utterly  surprised  by  some  piece  of  nasty  work.  As  his  
fortune  cookie  rolled  across
the  table  Bill  saw  two  teeth  inside  its  hollow,  their  roots  dark  
with  clotted  blood.  They  raided
together like seeds in a hollow gourd.

He  looked  back  at  Beverly  and  saw  she  was  hitching  in  breath  to  
scream.  Her  eyes  were
fixed  on  the  thing  that  had  crawled  out  of  Eddie's  cookie,  the  
thing  that  was  now  kicking  its
sluggish legs as it lay overturned on the tablecloth.

Bill  got  moving.  He  was  not  thinking,  only  reacting.  Intuition,  he  
thought  crazily  as  he
lunged  out  of  his  seat  and  clapped  his  hand  over  Beverly's  mouth 
just before she could utter
the scream. Here I am, acting on intuition. Mike should be proud of me.

What came out of Beverly's mouth was not a scream but a strangled 'Mmmmph!'

Eddie  was  making  those  whistling  sounds  that  Bill  remembered  so  well. 
 No  problem  there,
a good honk on the old lung-sucker would set Eddie right.  Right as a trivet,  
Freddie Firestone
would have said, and Bill wondered  —  not for the first time  —  why a person 
had such weird
thoughts at times like these.

He  glanced  around  fiercely  at  the  others,  and  what  came  out  was  
something  else  from  that
summer,  something  that  sounded  both  impossibly  archaic  and  exactly  
right:  'Dummy  up!  All
of you! Not one sound! Just dummy up!'

Rich  wiped  a  hand  across  his  mouth.  Mike's  complexion  had  gone  a  
dirty  gray,  but  he
nodded  at  Bill.  All  of  them  moved  away  from  the  table.  Bill  had  
not  opened  his  own  fortune
cookie, but now he could see its sides moving slowly in and out  — bulge and 
relax, bulge and
relax, bulge and relax — as his own party-favor tried to escape.

'Mmmmmph!' Beverly said against his hand again, her breath tickling his palm.
'Dummy up, Bev,' he said, and took his hand away.

Her  face  seemed  to  be  all  eyes.  Her  mouth  twitched.  'Bill  .  .  .  
Bill,  did  you  see  .  .  .  '  Her
eyes  strayed  back  to  the  cricket  and  then  fixed  there.  The  cricket  
appeared  to  be  dying.  Its
rugose eyes stared back at her, and presently Beverly began to moan.

'Quh-Quh-Quit that,' he said grimly. 'Pull back to the table.'
'I can't, Billy, I can't get near that thi — '

'You  can!  You  h-have  to!' He heard footsteps, light and quick, coming up 
the short hall on
the other side of the beaded curtain. He looked around at the others. 'All of 
you! Pull up to the

table! Talk! Look natural!'

Beverly  looked  at  him,  eyes  pleading,  and  Bill  shook  his  head.  He  
sat  down  and  pulled  his
chair  in,  trying  not  to  look  at  the  fortune  cookie  on  his  plate.  
It  had  swelled  like  some
unimaginable  boil  which  was  filling  with  pus.  And  still  it  pulsed  
slowly  in  and  out.  I  could
have bitten into that, he thought faintly.

Eddie  triggered  his  aspirator  down  his  throat  again,  gasping  mist  
into  his  lungs  in  a  long,
thin screaming sound.


'So  who  do  you  think's  going  to  win  the  pennant?'  Bill  asked  Mike,  
smiling  insanely.  Rose
came  through  the  curtain  just  then,  her  face  politely  questioning.  
Out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye
Bill saw that Bev had pulled up to the table again. Good girl, he thought.

'I think the Chicago Bears look good,' Mike said.
'Everything is all right?' Rose asked.

'F-Fine,'  Bill  said.  He  cocked  a  thumb  in  Eddie's  direction.  'Our  
friend  had  an  asthma

attack. He took his medication. He's better now.'
Rose looked at Eddie, concerned.

'Better,' Eddie wheezed.

'You would like that I clear now?'

'Very shortly,' Mike said, and offered a large false smile.

'Was  good?'  Her  eyes  surveyed  the  table  again,  a  bit  of  doubt  
overlaying  a  deep  well  of
serenity.  She  did  not  see  the  cricket,  the  eye,  the  teeth,  or  the  
way  Bill's  fortune  cookie
appeared  to  be  breathing.  Her  eye  similarly  passed  over  the  
bloodstain  splotched  on  the
tablecloth without trouble.

'Everything was   very  good,'  Beverly  said,  and  smiled  —  a  more  
natural  smile  than  either
Bill's  or  Mike's.  It  seemed  to  set  Rose's  mind  at  rest,  convinced  
her  that  if  something  had
gone wrong in here, it had been the fault of neither Rose's service nor her 
kitchen.  Girl's got a
lot of guts, Bill thought.

'Fortunes were good?' Rose asked.

'Well,' Richie said, 'I don't know about the others, but I for one got a real 
eyeful.'

Bill  heard  a  minute  cracking  sound.  He  looked  down  at  his  plate  and 
 saw  a  leg  poking
blindly out of his fortune cookie. It scraped at his plate.

I could have bitten into that, he thought again, but held onto his smile. 'Very 
fine,' he said.

Richie  was  looking  at  Bill's  plate.  A  great  grayish-black  fly  was  
slowing  birthing  itself
from   the   collapsing   remains   of   his   cookie.   It   buzzed   weakly.  
 Yellowish   goo   flowed
sluggishly  out  of  the  cookie  and  puddled  on  the  tablecloth.  There  
was  a  smell  now,  the  bland
thick smell of an infected wound.

'Well, if I can help you in no way at this moment . . . '

'Not right now,' Ben said. 'A wonderful meal. Most . . . most unusual.'

'I leave you then,' she said, and bowed out through the beaded curtain. The 
beads were still
swaying and clacking together when all of them pushed away from the table 
again.

'What is it?' Ben asked huskily, looking at the thing on Bill's plate.

'A  fly,'  Bill  said.  'A  mutant  fly.  Courtesy  of  a  writer  named  
George  Langla-han, I think. He
wrote  a  story  called  "The  Fly."  A  movie  was  made  out  of  it  —  not  
a  terribly  good  one.  But
the  story  scared  the  bejesus  out of me. It's up to Its old tricks, all 
right. That fly business has
been  on  my  mind  a  lot  lately,  because  I've  sort  of  been  planning  
this  novel  —  Roadbugs, I've
been thinking of calling it. I know the title sounds p-pretty stupid, but you 
see — '

'Excuse me,' Beverly said distantly. 'I have to vomit, I think.'
She was gone before any of the men could rise.

Bill  shook  out  his  napkin  and  threw  it  over  the  fly,  which  was  the 
 size  of  a  baby  sparrow.
Nothing  so  large  could  have  come  from  something  as  small  as  a  
Chinese  fortune  cookie  .  .  .

but it had. It buzzed twice under the napkin and then fell silent.
'Jesus,' Eddie said faintly.

'Let's get the righteous fuck out of here,' Mike said. 'We can meet Bev in the 
lobby.'

Beverly  was  just  coming  out  of  the  women's  room  as  they  gathered  by 
 the  cash  register.
She  looked  pale  but  composed.  Mike  paid  the  check,  kissed  Rose's  
cheek,  and  then  they  all
went out into the rainy afternoon.

'Does this change anyone's mind?' Mike asked.

'I don't think it changes mine,'Ben said.


'No,' Eddie said.

'What mind?' Richie said.

Bill shook his head and then looked at Beverly.

'I'm staying,' she said. 'Bill, what did you mean when you said It's up to Its 
old tricks?'

'I've  been  thinking  about  writing  a  bug  story,'  he  said.  'That  
Langlahan  story  had  woven
itself  into  my  thinking.  And  so  I  saw  a  fly.  Yours  was  blood,  
Beverly.  Why  was  blood  on
your mind?'

'I  guess  because  of  the  blood  from  the  drain,'  Beverly  said  at  
once.  'The  blood  that came
out  of  the  bathroom  drain  in  the  old  place,  when  I  was  eleven.'  
But  was  that  really  it?  She
didn't  really  think  so.  Because  what  had  flashed  immediately  to  mind  
when  the  blood  spurted
across  her  fingers  in  a  warm  little  jet  had  been  the  bloody  
footprint  she  had  left  behind  her
after stepping on the broken perfume bottle. Tom. And

(Bevvie sometimes I worry a lot)
her father.

'You got a bug, too,' Bill said to Eddie. 'Why?'

'Not just a bug,' Eddie said. 'A  cricket.  There are crickets  in our 
basement. Two-hundred-
thousand-dollar  house  and  we  can't  get  rid  of  the  crickets.  They  
drive  us  crazy  at  night.  A
couple           of  nights  before  Mike  called,  I  had  a  really  terrible 
 nightmare.  I  dreamed  I  woke  up
and  my  bed  was  full  of  crickets.  I  was  trying to shoot them with my 
aspirator, but all it would
do when I squeezed it was make crackling noises, and just before I woke up I 
realized  it  was
full of crickets, too.'

'The  hostess  didn't  see  any  of  it,'  Ben  said.  He  looked  at  Beverly. 
 'Like  your  folks never

saw the blood that came out of the drain, even though it was everywhere.'
'Yes,' she said.

They stood looking at each other in the fine spring rain.

Mike looked at his watch. 'There'll be a bus in twenty minutes or so,' he said, 
'or I  can take
four of you in my car, if we cram. Or I can call some cabs. Whatever way you 
want to do it.'

'I  think  I'm  going  to  walk  from  here,'  Bill  said.  'I  don't  know  
where  I'm  going,  but  a  little
fresh air seems like a great idea along about now.'

'I'm going to call a cab,' Ben said.

'I'll share it with you, if you'll drop me off downtown,' Richie said.
'Okay. Where you going?'

Richie shrugged.'Not really sure yet.'
The others elected to wait for the bus.

'Seven  tonight,'  Mike  reminded.  'And  be  careful,  all  of  you.'  They  
agreed  to  be  careful,
although  Bill  did  not  know  how  you  could  truthfully  make  a  promise  
like  that  when  dealing
with such a formidable array of unknown factors.

He started to say so, then looked at their faces and saw that they knew it 
already.

He  walked  away  instead,  raising  one  hand  briefly  in  farewell.  The  
misty  air  felt  good
against his face. The walk back to town would be a long one, but that was all 
right. He had a
lot to think about. He was glad that the reunion was over and the business had 
begun.


C H A P T E R  1 1

Walking Tours

1

Ben Hanscom Makes a Withdrawal

Richie  Tozier  got  out  of  the  cab  at  the  three-way intersection of 
Kansas Street, Center Street,
and  Main  Street,  and  Ben  dismissed  it  at  the  top  of  Up-Mile  Hill.  
The  driver  was  Bill's
'religious  fella,'  but  neither  Richie  nor  Ben  knew  it:  Dave  had  
lapsed  into  a  morose  silence.
Ben  could  have  gotten  off  with  Richie,  he  supposed,  but  it  seemed  
better  somehow  that  they
all start off alone.

He stood on the corner of Kansas Street and Daltrey Close, watching the cab 
pull back into
traffic,  hands  stuffed  deeply  into  his  pockets,  trying  to  get  the  
lunch's  hideous  conclusion  out
of  his  mind.  He  couldn't  do  it;  his  thoughts  kept  returning  to  that 
 black-gray fly crawling out
of  the  fortune  cookie  on  Bill's  plate,  its  veined  wings  plastered  to 
 its  back.  He  would  try  to
divert  his  mind  from  this  unhealthy  image,  think  he  had  succeeded,  
only  to  discover  five
minutes later that his mind was back at it.

I'm  trying  to  justify  it  somehow,  he thought, meaning it not in the moral 
sense but rather in
the  mathematical  one.  Buildings  are  built  by  observing  certain  natural 
 laws;  natural  laws  may
be  expressed  by  equations;  equations  must  be  justified.  Where  was  the 
 justification  in  what
had happened less than half an hour ago?

Let it alone, he told himself, not for the first time. You can't justify it, so 
let it alone.

Very  good  advice;  the  problem  was  that  he  couldn't  take  it.  He  
remembered  that  the  day
after  he  had  seen  the  mummy  on  the  iced-up  Canal,  his  life  had  
gone  on  as  usual.  He  had
known  that  whatever  it  had  been  had  come  very  close  to  getting  him, 
 but  his  life  had  gone  on:
he  had  attended  school,  taken  an  arithmetic  test,  visited  the  library 
 when school was over, and
eaten  with  his  usual  heartiness.  He  had  simply  incorporated  the  thing 
 he  had  seen  on  the
Canal  into  his  life,  and  if  he  had  almost  been  killed  by  it  .  .  
.  well,  kids  were  always  almost
getting  killed.  They  dashed  across  streets  without  looking,  they  got  
horsing  around  in  the  lake
and  suddenly  realized  they  had  floated  far  past  their  depth  on  their 
 rubber  rafts  and  had  to
paddle back, they fell off monkey-bars on their asses and out of trees on their 
heads.

Now,  standing  here  in  the  fading  drizzle  in  front  of  a  Trustworthy  
Hardware  Store  that  had
been  a  pawnshop  in  1958  (Frati  Brothers,  Ben  recalled,  the  double  
windows  always  full  of
pistols  and  rifles  and  straight-razors  and  guitars  hung  up  by  their  
necks  like  exotic  animals), ti
occurred   to   him   that   kids   were   better   at   almost   dying,   and  
 they   were   also   better   at
incorporating  the  inexplicable  into  their  lives.  They  believed  
implicitly  in  the  invisible  world.
Miracles  both  bright  and  dark  were  to  be  taken  into  consideration,  
oh  yes, most certainly, but
they   by  no  means  stopped  the  world.  A  sudden  upheaval  of  beauty  or 
 terror  at  ten  did  not
preclude an extra cheese-dog or two for lunch at noon.

But  when  you  grew  up,  all  that  changed.  You  no  longer  lay  awake  in 
 your  bed,  sure
something  was  crouching  in  the  closet  or  scratching  at  the  window  .  
.  .  but  when  something
did  happen,  something  beyond  rational  explanation,  the  circuits  
overloaded.  The  axons  and
dendrites  got  hot.  You  started  to  jitter  and  jive,  you  started  to  
shake  rattle  and  roll,  your
imagination  started  to  hop  and  bop  and  do  the  funky  chicken  all  
over  your  nerves.  You
couldn't  just  incorporate  what  had  happened  into  your  life  experience. 
 It  didn't  digest.  Your
mind  kept  coming  back  to  it,  pawing  it  lightly  like  a  kitten with  a 
 ball  of  string  .  .  .  until
eventually,  of  course,  you  either  went  crazy  or  got  to  a  place  
where  it  was  impossible  for  you
to function.


And if that happens, Ben thought, It's got me. Us. Cold.

He  started  to  walk  up  Kansas  Street,  not  conscious  of  heading  
anyplace  in  particular.  And
thought suddenly: What did we do with the silver dollar?

He still couldn't remember.

The silver dollar, Ben . . . Beverly saved your life with it. Yours . . . maybe 
all the others' . .

. and especially Bill's. It almost ripped my guts out before Beverly did . . . 
what? What did she
do? And how was it able to work? She backed it off, and we all helped her. But 
how?

A  word  came  to  him  suddenly,  a  word  that  meant  nothing  at  all  but  
which  tightened  his
flesh: Chüd.

He looked down at the sidewalk and for a moment saw the shape of a turtle 
chalked there,
and  the  world  seemed  to  swim  before  his  eyes.  He  shut  them  tightly  
and  when  he  opened
them saw it was not a turtle; only a hopscotch grid half-erased by the light 
rain.

Chüd.

What did that mean?

'I  don't  know,'  he  said  aloud,  and  when  he  looked  around  quickly  to 
 see  if  anyone  had
heard  him  talking  to  himself,  he  saw  that  he  had  turned  off  Kansas  
Street  and  onto  Costello
Avenue.  At  lunch  he  had  told  the  others  that  the  Barrens  were  the  
only  place  in  Derry  where
he  had felt happy as a kid . . . but that wasn't quite true, was it? There had 
been another place.
Either   accidentally   or   unconsciously,   he   had   come   to   that   
other   place:   the   Derry   Public
Library.

He  stood  in  front  of  it  for  a  minute  or  two,  hands  still  in  his  
pockets.  It  hadn't  changed;  he
admired  its  lines  as  much  now  as  he  had  as  a  child.  Like  so  many  
stone  buildings  that  had
been    well-designed,    it    succeeded    in    confounding    the    
closely    observing    eye    with
contradictions:  its  stone  solidity  was  somehow  balanced  by  the  
delicacy  of  its  arches  and  slim
columns;  it  looked  both  bank-safe  squat  and  yet  slim  and  clean  
(well,  it  was  slim  as  city
buildings  went,  especially  those  erected  around  the  turn  of  the  
century,  and  the  windows,
crisscrossed   with   narrow   strips   of   iron,   were   graceful   and   
rounded).   These   contradictions
saved it from ugliness, and he was not entirely surprised to feel a wave of 
love for the place.

Nothing  much  had  changed  on  Costello  Avenue.  Glancing  along  it,  he  
could  see  the  Derry
Community  House,  and  he  found  himself  wondering  if  the  Costello  
Avenue  Market  was  still
there at the point where the avenue, which was semicircular, rejoined Kansas 
Street.

He walked across the  library  lawn,  barely  noticing  that  his  dress  boots 
 were  getting  wet,  to
have  a  look  at  that  glassed-in  passageway  between  the  grownups'  
library  and  the  Children's
Library.  It  was  also  unchanged,  and  from  here,  standing  just  outside  
the  bowed  branches  of  a
weeping  willow  tree,  he  could  see  people  passing  back  and  forth.  The 
 old  delight  flooded
him,  and  he  really  forgot  what  had  happened  at  the  end  of  the  
reunion  lunch  for  the  first  time.
He  could  remember  walking  around  to  this  very  same  spot  as  a  kid,  
only  in  the  winter,
plowing  his  way  through  snow  that  was  almost  hip-deep,  and  then  
standing  for  as  long  as
fifteen  minutes.  He  would  come  at  dusk,  he  remembered,  and  again  it  
was  the  contrasts  that
drew  him  and  held  him  there  with  the  tips  of  his  fingers  going numb 
and snow melting inside
his  green  gumrubber  boots.  It  would  be  drawing-down-dark  out  where  he 
 was,  the  world
going  purple  with  early  winter  shadows,  the  sky  the  color  of  ashes  
in  the  east  and  embers  in
the  west.  It  would  be  cold  where  he  was,  ten  degrees  perhaps,  and  
chillier  than  that  if  the
wind was blowing across from the frozen Barrens, as it so often did.

But  there,  less  than  forty  yards  from  where  he  stood,  people  walked  
back  and  forth  in  their
shirtsleeves.  There,  less  than  forty  yards  from where  he  stood,  was  a 
 tubeway  of  bright  white
light,    thrown    by    the    overhead    fluorescents.    Little    kids    
giggled    together,    high-school
sweethearts  held  hands  (and  if  the  librarian  saw  them,  she  would  
make  them  stop).  It  was
somehow  magical,  magical  in  a  good  way  that  he  had  been  too  young  
to  account  for  with
such  mundane  things  as  electric  power  and  oil  heat.  The  magic  was  
that  glowing  cylinder  of


light  and  life  connecting  those  two  dark  buildings  like  a  lifeline,  
the  magic  was  in  watching
people  walk  through  it  across  the  dark  snowfield,  untouched  by  either 
 the  dark  or  the  cold.  It
made them lovely and Godlike.

Eventually  he  would  walk  away  (as  he  was  doing  now)  and  circle  the  
building  to  the  front
door (as he was doing now), but he would always pause and  look back once (as 
he was doing
now)  before  the  bulking  stone  shoulder  of  the  adult  library  cut  off  
the  sight-line  to  that
delicate umbilicus.

Ruefully  amused  at  the  ache  of  nostalgia  around  his  heart,  Ben  went  
up  the  steps  to  the
door  of  the  adult  library,  paused  for  a  moment  on  the  narrow  
verandah  just  inside  the  pillars,
always  so  high  and  cool  no  matter  how  hot  the  day. Then he pulled 
open the iron-bound door
with the book-drop slot in it and went into the quiet.

The  force  of  memory  almost  dizzied  him  for  a  moment  as  he  stepped  
into  the  mild  light  of
the hanging glass globes. The force was not physical  —  not like a shot to the 
jaw or a slap. It
was  more  akin  to  that  queer  feeling  of  time  doubling  back  on  itself 
 that  people  call,  for  want
of  a  better term,   déjà  vu.  Ben  had  had  the  feeling  before,  but  it  
had  never  struck  him  with
such  disorienting  power;  for  the  moment  or  two  he  stood  inside  the  
door,  he  felt  literally  lost
in time, not really sure how old he was. Was he thirty-eight or eleven?

Here  was  the  same  murmuring  quiet,  broken  only  by  an  occasional  
whisper,  the  faint  thud
of  a  librarian  stamping  books  or  overdue  notices,  the  hushed  riffle  
of  newspaper  or  magazine
pages  being  turned.  He  loved  the  quality  of  the  light  as  much  now  
as  then. It slanted through
the  high  windows,  gray  as  a  pigeon's  wing  on  this  rainy  afternoon,  
a  light  that  was  somehow
somnolent and dozey.

He  walked  across  the  wide  floor  with  its  red-and-black linoleum pattern 
almost completely
worn  away,  trying  as  he  had  always  tried  back  then  to  hush  the  
sound  of  his  footfalls  — the
adult library rose up to a dome in the middle, and all sounds were magnified.

He  saw  that  the  circular  iron  staircases  leading  to  the  stacks  were  
still  there,  one  on  either
side  of  the  horseshoe-shaped  main  desk,  but  he  also  saw  that  a  tiny 
 cagework  elevator  had
been  added  at  some  point  in  the  twenty-five years since he and his mamma 
had moved away.
It was something of a relief — it drove a wedge into that suffocating feeling 
of deja-vu.

He  felt  like  an  interloper  crossing  the  wide  floor,  a  spy  from  
another  country.  He  kept
expecting  the  librarian  at  the  desk  to  raise  her  head,  look  at  him, 
 and  then  challenge  him  in
clear,  ringing  tones  that  would  shatter  the  concentration  of  every  
reader here  and  focus  every
eye  upon  him: 'You! Yes, you! What are you doing here? You have no business 
here! You're
from Outside! You're from Before! Go back where you came from! Go back right 
now, before
I call the police!'

She  did  look  up,  a  young  girl,  pretty, and for one absurd moment it 
seemed to Ben that the
fantasy  was  really  going  to  come  true,  and  his'  heart  rose  into  his 
 throat  as  her  pale-blue eyes
touched  his.  Then  they  passed  on  indifferently,  and  Ben  found  he  
could  walk  again.  If  he  was
a spy, he hadn't been found out.

He  passed  under  the  coil  of  one  of  the  narrow  and  almost  suicidally 
 steep  wrought-iron
staircases  on  his  way  to  the  corridor  leading  to  the  Children's  
Library,  and  was  amused  to
realize  (only  after  he  had  done  it)  that  he  had  run  down  another  
old  track  of  his  childhood
behavior.  He  had  looked  up,  hoping,  as  he  had  hoped  as  a  kid,  to  
see  a  girl  in  a  skirt  coming
down  those  steps.  He  could  remember  (now  he  could  remember)  glancing  
up  there  for  no
reason  at  all  one  day  when  he  was  eight  or  nine  and  looking  right  
up  the  chino  skirt  of  a
pretty  high-school  girl  and  seeing  her  clean  pink  underwear.  As  the  
sudden  sunlit  glint  of
Beverly  Marsh's  ankle -bracelet  had  shot  an  arrow  of  something  more  
primitive  than  simple
love  or  affection  through  his  heart  on  the  last  day  of  school  in  
1958,  so  had  the  sight  of  the
high-school  girl's  panties  affected  him;  he  could  remember  sitting  at  
a  table  in  the  Children's
Library  and  thinking  of  that  unexpected  view  for  perhaps  as  long  as  
twenty  minutes,  his


cheeks  and  forehead  hot,  a  book  about  the  history  of  trains  open  
and  unread  before  him,  his
penis  a  hard  little  branch  in  his  pants,  a  branch  that  had  sunk  
its  roots  all  the  way  up  into  his
belly.  He  had  fantasized  the  two  of  them  married,  living  in  a  small 
house on the outskirts of
town, indulging in pleasures he did not in the least understand.

The  feelings  had  passed  off  almost  as  suddenly  as  they  had  come,  
but  he  had  never  walked
under  the  stairway  again  without  glancing  up.  He  hadn't  ever  seen 
anything else as interesting
or  affecting  (once  a  fat  lady  working  her  way  down  with  ponderous  
care,  but  he  had  looked
away  from  that  sight  hastily,  feeling  ashamed,  like  a  violator),  but  
the  habit  persisted  —  he
had done it again now, as a grown man.

He  walked  slowly  down  the  glassed-in  passageway,  noticing  other  
changes  now:  Yellow
decals  that  said  OPEC   LOVES   IT   WHEN   YOU   WASTE   ENERGY,   so  SAVE 
 A  WATT!  had  been
plastered  over  the  switchplates.  The  framed  pictures  on  the  far  wall  
when  he  entered  this
scaled-down  world  of  blondewood  tables  and  small  blondewood  chairs,  
this  world  where  the
drinking   fountain   was   only   four   feet   high,   were   not   of   
Dwight   Eisenhower   and   Richard
Nixon but of Ronald Reagan and George Bush  — Reagan, Ben recalled, had been 
host of  GE
Theater  in  the  year  that  Ben  had  graduated  from  the  fifth  grade,  
and  George  Bush  would  not
have seen thirty yet.

But —

That  feeling  of déjà  vu  swept him again. He was helpless before it, and 
this time he felt the
numb  horror  of  a  man  who  finally  realizes,  after  half  an  hour  of  
helpless  splashing,  that  the
shore is growing no closer and he is drowning.

It was story hour, and over in the corner a group of roughly a dozen little 
ones sat solemnly

on  their  tiny  chairs  in  a  semicircle,  listening.  'Who  is  that  
trip-trapping upon my bridge?'  the
librarian  said  in  the  low,  growling  tones  of  the  troll  in  the  
story,  and  Ben  thought: When she
raises her head I'll see that it's Miss Dames, yes, it'll be Miss Davies and 
she won't look a day
older —

But  when  she  did  raise  her  head,  he  saw  a  much  younger  woman  than  
Miss  Davies  had
been even then.

Some  of  the  children  covered  their  mouths  and  giggled,  but  others  
only  watched  her,  their

eyes  reflecting  the  eternal  fascination  of  the  fairy  story:  would the  
monster  be  bested  .  .  .  or
would it feed?

'It  is  I,  Billy  Goat  Gruff,  trip-trapping  on  your  bridge,'  the  
librarian  went  on,  and  Ben,  pale,
walked past her.

How can it be the same story?  The very same story?  Am I supposed to believe 
that's just

coincidence? Because I don't . . . goddammit, I just don't!

He  bent  to  the  drinking  fountain,  bending  so  far  he  felt  like  
Richie  doing  one  of  his  salami-
salami-baloney routines.

I ought to talk to someone,  he thought, panicked. Mike . . . Bill . .  . 
someone. Is something
really stapling the past and present together here, or am I only imagining it? 
Because if I'm
not, I'm not sure I bargained for this much. I —

He  looked  at  the  checkout  desk,  and  his  heart  seemed  to  stop  in  
his  chest  for  a  moment
before  beginning  to  race  doubletime.  The  poster  was  simple,  stark  .  
.  .  and  familiar.  It  said
simply:

REMEMBER THE CURFEW.

7 P.M.

DERRY POLICE DEPARTMENT.

In that instant it all seemed to come clear to him  — it came in a grisly flash 
of light, and he
realized that the vote they had taken was a joke. There was no turning back, 
never had been.


They  were  on  a  track  as  preordained  as  the  memory-track which had 
caused him to look up
when  he  passed  under  the  stairway  leading  to  the  stacks.  There  was  
an  echo here in Derry, a
deadly  echo,  and  all  they  could  hope  for  was  that  the  echo  could  
be  changed  enough  in  their
favor to allow them to escape with their lives.

'Christ,' he muttered, and scrubbed a palm up one cheek, hard.

'Can  I  help  you,  sir?'  a  voice  at  his  elbow  asked,  and  he  jumped  
a  little.  It  was  a  girl  of
perhaps  seventeen,  her  dark-blonde  hair  held  back  from  her  pretty  
high-schooler's  face  with
barrettes.  A  library  assistant,  of  course;  they'd  had  them  in  1958  
too,  high-school  girls  and
boys  who  shelved  books,  showed  kids  how  to  use  the  card  catalogue,  
discussed  book  reports
and  school  papers,  helped  bewildered  scholars  with  their  footnotes  and 
 bibliographies.  The
pay was a pittance, but there were always kids willing to do it. It was 
agreeable work.

On  the  heels  of  this,  reading  the  girl's  pleasant  but  questioning  
look  a  little  more  closely,  he
remembered  that  he  no  longer  really  belonged  here  —  he  was  a  giant  
in  the  land  of  little
people.  An  intruder.  In  the  adults'  library  he  had  felt  uneasy  about 
 the  possibility  of  being
looked at or spoken to, but here it was something of a relief. For one thing, 
it proved he was
still  an  adult,  and  the  fact  that  the  girl  was  clearly  braless  
under  her  thin  Western-style  shirt
was  also  more  relief  than  turn-on:  if  proof  that  this  was  1985  and  
not  1958  was  needed,  the
clearly limned points of her nipples against the cotton of her shirt was it.

'No  thank  you,'  he  said,  and  then,  for  no  reason  at  all  that  he  
could  understand,  he  heard
himself add: 'I was looking for my son.'

'Oh? What's his name? Maybe I've seen him.' She smiled. 'I know most of the 
kids.'
'His name is Ben Hanscom,' he said. 'But I don't see him here.'

'Tell me what he looks like and I'll give him a message, if there is one.'

'Well,'  Ben  said,  uncomfortable  now  and  beginning  to  wish  he  had  
never  started  this,  'he's
on  the  stout  side,  and  he  looks  a  little  bit  like  me.  But  it's  no 
 big  deal,  miss.  If  you  see  him,
just tell him his dad popped by on his way home.'

'I will,'  she  said,  and  smiled,  but  the  smile  didn't  reach  her  eyes, 
 and  Ben  suddenly  realized
that  she  hadn't  come  over  and  spoken  to  him  out  of  simple  
politeness and a wish to help. She
happened  to  be  a  library  assistant  in  the  Children's  Library  in  a  
town  where nine children had
been  slain  over  a  span  of  eight  months.  You  see  a  strange  man  in  
this  scaled-down world
where adults rarely come except to drop their kids off or pick them up. You're 
suspicious . . .
of course.

'Thank you,' he said, gave her a smile he hoped was reassuring, and then got 
the hell out.

He  walked  back  through  the  corridor  to  the  adults'  library  and  went  
to  the  desk  on  an
impulse  he  didn't  understand  .  .  .  but  of  course  they  were  supposed 
 to  follow  their  impulses
this afternoon, weren't they? Follow their impulses and see where they led.

The  name  plate  on  the  circulation  desk  identified  the  pretty  young  
librarian  as  Carole
Banner.  Behind  her,  Ben  could  see  a  door  with  a  frosted-glass  panel; 
 lettered  on  this  was
MICHAEL HANLON HEAD LIBRARIAN.

'May I help you?' Ms Banner asked.

'I think so,' Ben said. 'That is, I hope so. I'd like to get a library card.'
'Very good,' she said, and took out a form. 'Are you a resident of Berry?'
'Not presently.'

'Home address, then?'

'Rural  Star  Route  2,  Hemingford  Home,  Nebraska.'  He  paused  for  a  
moment,  a  little
amused by her stare, and then reeled off the Zip Code: '59341.'

'Is this a joke, Mr Hanscom?'
'Not at all.

'Are you moving to Derry, then?'

'I have no plans to, no.'


'This   is   a   long   way   to   come   to   borrow   books,   isn't   it?   
Don't   they   have   libraries   in
Nebraska?'

'It's  kind  of  a  sentimental  thing,'  Ben  said.  He  would  have  thought  
telling  a  stranger  this
would  be  embarrassing,  but  he  found  it  wasn't.  'I  grew  up  in  Berry, 
 you  see.  This  is  the  first
time  I've  been  back  since  I  was  a  kid.  I've  been  walking  around,  
seeing  what's  changed  and
what  hasn't.  And  all  at  once  it  occurred  to  me  that  I  spent  about  
ten  years  of  my  life  here
between  ages  three  and  thirteen,  and  I  don't  have  a  single  thing  to 
 remember  those  years  by.
Not so much as a postcard. I had some silver dollars, but I lost one of them 
and gave the rest
to  a  friend.  I  guess  what  I  want  is  a  souvenir  of  my  childhood.  
It's  late,  but  don't  they  say
better late than never?'

Carole  Banner  smiled,  and  the  smile  changed  her  pretty  face  into  one 
 that  was  beautiful.  'I
think  that's  very  sweet,'  she  said.  'If  you'd  like  to  browse  for  
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  I'll  have
the card made up for you when you come back to the desk.'

Ben grinned a little. 'I guess there'll be a fee,' he said. 'Out-of-towner and 
all.'
'Bid you have a card when you were a boy?'

'I  sure  did.'  Ben  smiled.  'Except  for  my  friends,  I  guess  that  
library  card  was  the  most
important — '

'Ben,  would  you  come  up  here?'  a  voice  called  suddenly,  cutting  
across  the  library  hush
like a scalpel.

He  turned  around,  jumping  guiltily  the  way  people  do  when  someone  
shouts  in  a  library.
He saw no one he knew . . . and realized a moment later that no one had looked 
up or shown
any  sign  of  surprise  or  annoyance.  The  old  men  still  read  their  
copies  of  the  Berry  News,  the
Boston  Globe,  National  Geographic,  Time,  Newsweek,  U.S.  News  &  World  
Report.  At the
tables  in  the  Reference  Room,  wt  o high-school  girls  still  had  their  
heads  together  over  a  stack
of  papers  and  a  pile  of  file-cards. Several browsers went on looking 
through the books on the
shelves  marked  CURRENT  FICTION  —  SEVEN-DAY-LOAN.  An  old  man  in  a  
ridiculous  driving-
cap,   a   cold   pipe  clenched  between  his  teeth,  went  on  leafing  
through  a  folio  of  Luis  de
Vargas' sketches.

He turned back to the young woman, who was looking at him, puzzled.
'Is anything wrong?'

'No,'  Ben  said,  smiling.  'I  thought  I  heard  something.  I  guess  I'm  
more  jet-lagged  than  I

thought. What were you saying?'

'Well, actually  you  were  saying.  But  I  was  about  to  add  that  if  you 
 had  a  card  when  you
were  a  resident,  your  name  will  still  be  in  the  files,'  she  said.  
'We  keep  everything  on
microfiche now. Some change from when you were a kid here, I guess.'

'Yes,'  he  said.  'A  lot  of  things  have  changed  in  Derry  .  .  .  but  
a  lot  of  things  also  seem  to
have remained the same.'

'Anyway, I can just look you up and give you a renewal card. No charge.'

'That's  great,'  Ben  said,  and  before  he  could  add  thanks  the  voice  
cut  through  the  library's
sacramental silence again, louder now, ominously jolly:  'Come  on  tip,  Ben!  
Come  on  up,  you
fat little fuck! This Is Your Life, Ben Hanscom!'

Ben cleared his throat. 'I appreciate it,' he said.

'Don't mention it.' She cocked her head at him. 'Has it gotten warm outside?'
'A little,' he said. 'Why?'

'You're — '

'Ben  Hanscom  did  it!'  the  voice  screamed.  It  was  coming  from  above   
— coming from the
stacks. 'Ben Hanscom killed the children! Get him! Grab him!'

' — perspiring,' she finished.
'Am I?' he said idiotically.

'I'll have this made up right away,' she said.


'Thank you.'

She headed for the old Royal typewriter at the corner of her desk.

Ben  walked  slowly  away,  his  heart  a  thudding  drum  in  his  chest.  
Yes,  he  was  sweating;  he
could  feel  it  trickling  down  from  his  forehead,  his  armpits,  matting  
the  hair  on  his  chest.  He
looked  up  and  saw  Pennywise  the  Clown  standing  at  the  top of the 
lefthand staircase, looking
down  at  him.  His  face  was  white  with  greasepaint.  His  mouth  bled  
lipstick  in  a  killer's  grin.
There  were  empty  sockets  where  his  eyes  should  have  been.  He  held  a 
 bunch  of  balloons  in
one hand and a book in the other.

Not he,  Ben thought.  It.  I  am  standing  here  in  the  middle  of  the  
Derry  Public  Library's

rotunda on a late-spring afternoon in 1985, I am a grown man, and I am face to 
face with my
childhood's greatest nightmare. I am face to face with It.

'Come  on  up,  Ben,'  Pennywise  called  down.  'I  won't  hurt  you.  I've  
got  a  book  for  you!  A
book . . . and a balloon! Come on up!'

Ben  opened  his  mouth  to  call  back,  You're  insane  if  you  think  I'm  
going  up  there,   and

suddenly  realized  that  if  he  did  that,  everyone  here  would  be  
looking  at  him,  everyone  here
would be thinking, Who is that crazyman?

'Oh,  I  know  you  can't  answer,'  Pennywise  called  down,  and  giggled.  
'Almost  fooled  you
there  for  a  minute,  though,  didn't  I?  "Pardon  me,  sir,  do  you  have  
Prince  Albert  in a can? . . .
You do? . . . Better let the poor guy out!" "Pardon me, ma'am, is your 
refrigerator running? . .

. It is? . . . Then hadn't you better go catch it?'"

The  clown  on  the  landing  threw  its  head  back  and  shrieked  laughter.  
It  roared  and  echoed
in  the  dome  of  the  rotunda  like  a  flight  of  black  bats,  and  Ben  
was  only  able  to  keep  from
clapping his hands over his ears with a tremendous effort of will.

'Come on up, Ben,' Pennywise called down. 'We'll talk. Neutral ground. What do 
you say?'

I'm not coming up there,  Ben thought.  When I finally come to you, you won't 
want to see
me, I think. We're going to kill you.

The  clown  shrieked  laughter  again.  'Kill  me?   Kill  me?'  And  suddenly, 
 horribly,  the  voice
was  Richie  Tozier's  voice,  not  his  voice,  precisely,  but  Richie  
Tozier  doing  his  Pickaninny
Voice:  'Doan  kill  me,  massa,  I  be  a  good  nigguh,  doan  kill  thisyere 
 black  boy,  Haystack!'
Then that shrieking laughter again.

Trembling,  white-faced,  Ben  walked  across  the  echoing  center  of  the  
adults'  library.  He  felt
that soon he would vomit. He stood in front of a shelf of books and took one 
down at random
with a hand that trembled badly. His cold fingers flittered the pages.

'This  is  your  one  chance,  Haystack!'  the  voice  called  from  behind  
and  above  him.  'Get  out
of  town.  Get  out  before  it  gets  dark  tonight.  I'll  be  after  you  
tonight  .  .  .  you  and  the  others.
You're  too  old  to  stop  me,  Ben.  You're  all  too old. Too old to do 
anything but get yourselves
killed. Get out, Ben. Do you want to see this tonight?'

He turned slowly, still holding the book in his icy hands. He didn't want to 
look, but it were
as if there were an invisible hand under his chin, tilting his head up and up 
and up.

The  clown  was  gone.  Dracula  was  standing  at  the  top  of  the  lefthand 
 stairway,  but  it  was
no  movie  Dracula;  it  was  not  Bela  Lugosi  or  Christopher  Lee  or  
Frank  Langella  or  Francis
Lederer  or  Reggie  Nalder.  An  ancient  man-thing  with  a  face  like  a  
twisted  root  stood  there.
Its  face  was  deadly  pale,  its  eyes  pur plish-red,  the  color  of  
bloodclots.  Its  mouth  dropped
open,  revealing  a  mouthful  of  Gillette  Blue-Blades  that  had  been  set  
in  the  gums  at  angles;  it
was like looking into a deadly mirror-maze where a single misstep could get you 
cut in half.

'KEEE-RUNCH!'  it  screamed,  and  its  jaws  snapped  closed.  Blood  gouted  
from  its  mouth  in  a
red-black  flood.  Chunks  of  its  severed  lips  fell  to  the  glowing  
white  silk  of  its  formal  shirt
and slid down its front, leaving snail-trails of blood behind.

'What did Stan  Uris see before he died?'  the vampire on the landing screamed 
down at him,

laughing  through  the  bloody  hole  of  its  mouth.  'Was  it  Prince  Albert 
 in  a  can?  Was  it  Davy


Crockett, King of the Wild Frontier? What did he see, Ben? Do you want to see 
it too? What
did  he  see?  What  did  he  see?'  Then  that  shrieking  laughter  again,  
and  Ben  knew  that  he
would  scream  now  himself,  yes,  there  was  no  way  to  stop  the  scream, 
 it  was  going  to  come.
Blood  was  pattering  down  from  the  landing  in  a  grisly  shower.  One  
drop  had  landed on the
arthritis-bunched  hand  of  an  old  man  who  was  reading  The  Wall  Street 
 Journal.  It  was
running      down between his knuckles, unseen and unfelt.

Ben  hitched  in  breath,  sure  the  scream  would  follow,  unthinkable  in  
the  quiet  of  this  softly
drizzling  spring  afternoon,  as  shocking  as  the  slash  of  a  knife  .  . 
 .  or  a  mouthful  of  razor-
blades.

Instead,  what  came  out  in  a  shaky,  uneven  rush,  spoken  instead  of  
screamed,  spoken  low
like  a  prayer,  were  these  words:  'We  made  slugs  out  of  it,  of  
course.  We   made  the  silver
dollar into silver slugs.'

The  gentleman  in  the  driving-cap  who  had  been  perusing  the  de  Vargas 
 sketches  looked  up
sharply.  'Nonsense,'  he  said.  Now  people  did  look up; someone hissed 
'Shhh!' at the old man
in an annoyed voice.

'I'm sorry,'  Ben  said  in  a  low,  trembling  voice.  He  was  faintly  
aware  that  his  face  was  now
running with sweat, and that his shirt was plastered to his body. 'I was 
thinking aloud — '

'Nonsense,'  the  old  gentleman  repeated,  in  a  louder  voice.  'Can't  
make  silver  bullets  from
silver dollars. Common misconception. Pulp fiction. Problem is with specific 
gravity — '

Suddenly  the  woman,  Ms.  Danner,  was  there.  'Mr  Brockhill,  you'll  have 
 to  be  quiet,'  she
said kindly enough. 'People are reading — '

'Man's  sick,'  Brockhill  said  abruptly,  and  went  back  to  his  book.  
'Give  him  an  aspirin,

Carole.'

Carole  Danner  looked  at  Ben  and  her  face  sharpened  with  concern.  
'Are  you  ill,  Mr
Hanscom? I know it's terribly impolite to say so, but you look terrible.'

Ben said, 'I . . . I had Chinese food for lunch. I don't think it's agreed with 
me.'

'If  you  want  to  lie  down,  there's  a  cot  in  Mr  Hanlon's  office.  You 
 could  —  ' 'No. Thanks,
but  no.'  What  he  wanted  was  not  to  lie  down  but  to  get  the  hell  
out  of  the  Derry  Public
Library.  He  looked  up  at  the  landing.  The  clown  was  gone.  The  
vampire  was  gone.  But  tied
to    the  low  wrought-iron  railing  which  surrounded  the  landing  was  a  
balloon.  Written  on  its
bulging skin were the words: HAVE A GOOD DAY! TONIGHT YOU DIE!

'I've  got  your  library  card,'  she  said,  putting  a  tentative  hand  on  
his  arm.  'Do  you  still  want

it?'

'Yes, thanks,' Ben said. He drew a deep, shuddery breath. 'I'm very sorry about 
this.'
'I just hope it isn't food-poisoning,' she said.

'Wouldn't  work,'  Mr  Brockhill  said  without  looking  up  from  de  Vargas  
or  removing  his
dead pipe from the corner of his mouth. 'Device of pulp fiction. Bullet would 
tumble.'

And  speaking  again  with  no  foreknowledge  that  he  was  going  to  speak, 
 Ben  said:  'Slugs,
not  bullets.  We  realized  almost  right  away  that  we  couldn't  make  
bullets.  I  mean,  we  were
just kids. It was my idea to — '

'Shhhh!' someone said again.

Brockhill  gave  Ben  a  slightly  startled  look,  seemed  about  to  speak,  
then  went  back  to  the
sketches.

At  the  desk,  Carole  Danner  handed  him  a  small  orange  card  with  
DERRY  PUBLIC  LIBRARY
stamped  across  the  top.  Bemused,  Ben  realized  it  was  the  first  adult 
 library-card  he  had
owned in his whole life. The one he'd had as a kid had been canary-yellow.

'Are you sure you don't want to lie down, Mr Hanscom?'
'I'm feeling a little better, thanks.'

'Sure?'

He managed a smile. 'I'm sure.'


'You  do  look  a  little  better,'  she  said,  but  she  said  it  
doubtfully,  as  if  understanding  that  this
was the proper thing to say but not really believing it.

Then  she  was  holding  a  book  under  the  microfilm  gadget  they  used  
these  days  to  record
book-loans,  and  Ben  felt  a  touch  of  almost  hysterical  amusement.   
It's  the  book  I  grabbed  off
the shelf when the clown started to do its Pickaninny Voice, he thought. She 
thought I wanted
to  borrow  it.  I've  made  my  first  withdrawal  from  the  Demy  Public  
Library  in  twenty-five
years, and I don't even know what the book is. Furthermore, I don't care. Just 
let me out of
here, okay? That'll be enough.

'Thank you,' he said, putting the book under his arm.

'You're more than welcome, Mr Hanscom. Are you sure you wouldn't like an 
aspirin?'

'Quite  sure,'  he  said  —   and  then  hesitated.  'You  wouldn't  by  any  
chance  know  what
happened  to  Mrs  Starrett,  would  you?  Barbara  Starrett?  She  used  to  
be  the  head  of  the
Children's Library.'

'She died,' Carole Danner said. Three years ago. It was a stroke, I understand. 
It was a great
shame.  She  was  relatively  young  .  .  .  fifty-eight or  -nine, I think. 
Mr Hanlon closed the library
for the day.'

'Oh,'  Ben  said,  and  felt  a  hollow  place  open  in  his  heart.  That's  
what  happened  when  you
got  back  to  your  used-to-be,  as  the  song  put  it.  The  frosting  on  
the  cake  was  sweet,  but  the
stuff  underneath  was  bitter.  People  forgot  you,  or  died  on  you,  or  
lost  their  hair  and  teeth.  In
some cases you found that they had lost their minds. Oh it was great to be 
alive. Boy howdy.

'I'm sorry,' she said. 'You liked her, didn't you?'

'All  the  kids  liked  Mrs  Starrett,'  Ben  said,  and  was  alarmed  to  
realize  that  tears  were  now
very close.

'Are you — '

If she asks me if I'm all right one more time, I really am going to cry, I 
think. Or scream.

Or something.

He glanced at his watch and said, 'I really have to run. Thanks for being so 
nice.'
'Have a nice day, Mr Hanscom.'

Sure. Because tonight I die.

He  tipped  a  finger  her  way  and  started  back  across  the  floor.  Mr  
Brockhill  glanced  up  at
him once, sharply and suspiciously.

He  looked  up  at  the  landing  which  topped  the  lefthand  staircase.  The 
 balloon  still  floated
there, tied by its string to lacy wrought-iron. But now the printing on its 
side read:

I KILLED BARBARA STARRETT!

— PENNYWISE THE CLOWN

He  looked  away,  feeling  the  pulse  in  his  throat  starting  to  run  
again.  He  let  himself  out  and
was  startled  by  sunlight  —  the  clouds  overhead  were  coming  unravelled 
 and  a  warm  late -
May  sun  was  shafting  down,  making  the  grass  look  impossibly  green  
and  lush.  Ben  felt
something  start  to  lift  from  his  heart.  It  seemed  to  him  that  he  
had  left  some  insupportable
burden  behind  in  the  library  .  .  .  and  then  he  looked  down  at  the 
 book  he  had  inadvertently
withdrawn  and  his  teeth  clamped  together  with  sudden,  painful  force.  
It  was  Bulldozer,  by
Stephen  W.  Meader,  one  of  the  books  he  had  withdrawn  from  the  
library  on  the  day  he  had
dived into the Barrens to get away from Henry Bowers and his friends.

And speaking of Henry, the track of his engineer boot was still on the book's 
cover.

Shaking,  fumbling  at  the  pages,  he  turned  to  the  back.  The  library  
had  gone  over  to  a
microfilm  checkout  system;  he  had  seen  that.  Bat  there  was  still  a  
pocket  in  the  back  of  this
book  with  a  card  tucked  into  it.  There  was  a  name  written  on  each  
line  of  the card followed
by the librarian's return-date stamp. Looking at the card, Ben saw this:


NAME OF BORROWER                                   RETURN BY STAMPED DATE

Charles N. Brown                                MAY 14  58

David Hartwell                                      JUN 1  58

Joseph Brennan                                     JUN 17  58

And,  on  the  last  line  of  the  card,  his  own  childish  signature,  
written  in  heavy  pencil-
strokes:

Benjamin Hanscom                               JUN 9  58

Stamped  across  this  card,  stamped  across  the  book's  flyleaf,  stamped  
across  the  thickness
of  the  pages,  stamped  again  and  again  in  smeary  red  ink  that  looked 
 like  blood,  was  one
word: CANCEL.

'Oh dear God,' Ben murmured. He did not know what else to say; that seemed to 
cover the

entire situation. 'Oh dear God, dear God.'

He stood in the new sunlight, suddenly wondering what was happening to the 
others.

2

Eddie Kaspbrak Makes a Catch

Eddie  got  off  the  bus  at  the  corner  of  Kansas  Street  and  Kossuth  
Lane.  Kossuth  was  a  street
that  ran  a  quarter  of  a  mile  downhill  before  dead-ending  abruptly  
where  the  crumbling  earth
sloped  into  the  Barrens.  He  had  absolutely no idea why he had chosen this 
place to leave the
bus;  Kossuth  Lane  meant  nothing  to  him,  and  he  had  known  no  one  on 
 this  particular  section
of  Kansas  Street.  But  it  seemed  like  the  right  place.  That  was  all  
he  knew,  but  at  this  point  it
seemed  to  be  enough.  Beverly  had  climbed  off  the  bus  with  a  little  
wave  at  one  of  the  Lower
Main Street stops. Mike had taken his car back to the library.

Now,  watching  the  small  and  somehow  absurd  Mercedes  bus  pull  away,  
he  wondered
exactly  what  he  was  doing  here,  standing  on  an  obscure  street-corner  
in  an  obscure  town
nearly  five  hundred  miles  away  from  Myra,  who  was  undoubtedly  worried 
 to  tears  about  him.
He  felt  an  instant  of  almost  painful  vertigo,  touched  his  jacket  
pocket,  and  remembered  that
he  had  left  his  Dramamine  back  at  the  Town  House  along  with  the  
rest  of  his  pharmacopeia.
He  had  aspirin,  though.  He  would  no  more  have  gone  out   sans  
aspirin  than  he  would  have
gone   out  sans   pants.  He  chugged  a  couple  dry  and  began  to  walk  
along  Kansas  Street,
thinking  vaguely  that  he  might  go  to  the  Public  Library  or  perhaps  
cross  over  to  Costello
Avenue.  It  was  beginning  to  clear  now,  and  he  supposed  he  could  
even  walk  across  to  West
Broadway  and  admire  the  old  Victorian  houses  that  stood  there  along  
the  only  two  really
handsome  residential  blocks  in  Derry.  He  used  to  do  that  sometimes  
when  he  was  a  kid  —
just  walk  along  West  Broadway,  sort  of  casual,  like  he  was  on  his  
way  to  somewhere  else.
There  was  the  Muellers',  near  the  corner  of  Witcham  and  West  
Broadway,  a  red  house  with
turrets  on  either  side  and  hedges  in  front.  The  Muellers  had  a  
gardener  who  always  looked  at
Eddie with suspicious eyes until he had passed on his way.

Then  there  was  the  Bowies'  house,  which  was  four  down  from  the  
Muellers'  on  the  same
side  —  one  of  the  reasons,  he  supposed,  that  Greta  Bowie  and  Sally  
Mueller had been such
great  friends  in  grammar  school.  It  was  green-shingled  and  also  had  
turrets  .  .  .  but  while  the
turrets  on  the  Muellers'  house  were  squared  off,  those  on  the  
Bowies'  house were capped with
funny  cone-shaped  things  that  looked  to  Eddie  like  squatty  duncecaps.  
In  the  summer  there
was  always  lawn-furniture  on  the  side  lawn   —  a  table  with  a  sporty 
 yellow  umbrella  over  it,


wicker  chairs,  a  rope  hammock  stretched  between  two  trees.  There  was  
always  a  croquet
game set up out back, too. Eddie knew this although he had never been invited 
over to Greta's
house to play croquet. Walking by casually (like he was on his way to somewhere 
else) Eddie
would  sometimes  hear  the  click  of  the  balls,  laughter,  groans  as  
someone's  ball  was  'sent
away.'  Once  he  had  seen  Greta  herself,  a  lemonade  in  one  hand  and  
her  croquet  mallet  in  the
other,   looking   slim   and   pretty   beyond   the   words   of   all   the  
 poets   (even   her   sunburned
shoulders  seemed  wonderfully  pretty  to  Eddie  Kaspbrak,  who  had  at  
that  time  been  nine),
going  after  her  ball,  which  had  been  'sent  away';  it  had  ricocheted  
off  a  tree  and  had  thus
brought Greta into Eddie's view.

He  fell  in  love  with  her  a  little  that  day  —  her  shining  blonde  
hair falling to the shoulders
of  her  culotte  dress,  which  was  a  cool  blue.  She  glanced  around  and 
 for  a  moment  he  thought
she  had  seen  him,  but  that  proved  not  to  be  so,  because  when  he  
raised  his  hand  in  a  timid
hello,  she  did  not  raise  hers  in  return  but  only  whacked  her  ball  
back  onto  the  rear  lawn  and
then  ran  after  it.  He  had  walked  on  with  no  resentment  at  the  
unreturned  hello  (he  genuinely
believed she must not have see him) or at the fact that he had never been 
invited to attend one
of    the  Saturday-afternoon  croquet  games:  why  would  a  beautiful  girl  
like  Greta  Bowie  want
to invite a kid like him? He was thin-chested, asthmatic, and had the face of a 
drowned water-
rat.

Yeah,  he thought, walking aimlessly back down Kansas Street,  I  should  have  
gone  over to
West  Broadway  and  looked  at  all  those  houses  again  .  .  .  the  
Muellers',  the  Bowies',  Dr
Hole's place, the Trackers' —

His thoughts broke off abruptly at that last name, because  — speak of the 
devil!  — here he

was, standing in front of Tracker Brothers' Truck Depot.

'Still right here,' Eddie said aloud, and laughed. 'Son of a gun!'

The  house  on  West  Broadway  which  belonged  to  Phil  and  Tony  Tracker,  
a  pair  of  life-long
bachelors,  was  probably  the  loveliest  of  the  large  houses  on  that  
street,  a  spotlessly  white
mid-Victorian  with  green  lawns  and  great  beds  of  flowers  that  rioted  
(in  a  neatly  landscaped
way,            of  course)  all  the  spring  and  summer  long.  Their  
driveway  was  freshly  sealed  each  fall
so  that  it  always  remained  as  black  as  a  dark  mirror,  the  slate  
shingles  on  the  many  slants  of
the  roof  were  always  a  perfect  mint  green  that  almost  exactly  
matched  the  lawn,  and  people
sometimes  stopped  to  take  pictures  of  the  mullioned  windows,  which  
were  very  old  and  quite
remarkable.

'Any  two  men  who  bother  keeping  a  house  so  nice  must  be  queers,'  
Eddie's  mother  had
once said in a disgruntled sort of way, and Eddie hadn't dared ask for 
clarification.

The Truck Depot was the exact opposite of the Tracker house on West Broadway. 
It was a
low   brick   structure;   the   bricks   were   old   and   crumbling   in   
places,   their   dirty-orange   hue
shading  to  a  sooty  black  at  the  building's  footings.  The  windows  
were  uniformly  filthy  except
for  a  small  circular  place  on  one  of  the  lower  panes  of  the  
starter's  office.  This one pane had
been kept spotlessly clean by kids before Eddie and those who came after, 
because the starter
kept a  Playboy  calendar over his desk. No boy came to play scratch baseball 
in the back lot
without first stopping to wipe at the glass with his ball-glove and examine 
that month's pinup.

The  depot  was  surrounded  by  a  waste  of  gravel  on  three  sides.  
Long-distance haulers  —

Jimmy-Petes  and  Kenworths  and  Rios  —  all  painted  with  the  words   
TRACKER  BROS.  DERRY
NEWTON   PROVIDENCE   HARTFORD   NEW   YORK,   sometimes  stood  here  in  
tangled  disordered
profusion.  Sometimes  they  were  put  together  and  sometimes  there  were  
just  cabs  or  body-
boxes, standing silent on their rear wheels and support-struts.

The  brothers  kept  their  trucks  out  of  the  lot  at  the  back  of  the  
building  as  much  as  they
could,  because  they  were  both  avid  baseball  fans  and  liked  the  kids  
to  come  and  play.  Phil
Tracker  drove  freight  himself  so  the  boys  rarely  saw  him,  but  Tony  
Tracker,  a  man  with  huge
slab  arms  and  a  gut  to  match,  kept  the  books  and the accounts, and 
Eddie (who never played


—  his  mother  would  have  killed  him  if  she  had  heard  he  was  playing 
 baseball,  racing  around
and  getting  dust  in  his  delicate  lungs,  risking  broken  legs,  
concussions,  and  God  alone  knew
what  else)  got  used  to  seeing  him.  He  was  a  summer  fixture,  his  
voice  as  much  a  part  of  the
game  to  Eddie  then  as  Mel  Alien's  later  became:  Tony  Tracker,  large  
but  somehow  ghostlike,
his  white  shirt  glimmering  as  summer  dusk  drew  down  and  fireflies  
began  to  loom  the  air
with their  lace of lights, yelling:  'You got to get under that bawl before 
you can catch it, Red!

. . . You took your eye off 'n the bawl, Half-Pint! You can't hit the goddam 
thing if you ain't
looking at it! . . . Slide, Horsefoot! You get the soles of them Keds in that 
second-baseman's
face, he ain't never goan tag you out!'

Never  called  any  of  them  by  name,  Eddie  remembered.  It  was  always  
hey  Red,  hey
Blondie,  hey  Four-Eyes,  hey  Half-Pint. It was never a ball, it was always a 
bawl. It was never
a  bat,  it  was  always  something  Tony  Tracker  called  an  'ash-handle,'  
as  in  'You  ain't  never
goan hit that bawl if you don't choke up on the ash-handle, Horsefoot.'

Grinning,  Eddie  walked  a  little  closer  .  .  .  and  then  the  grin  
faded.  The  long  brick  building
where orders had been processed, trucks repaired, and goods stored on a 
short-term basis was
now  dark  and  silent.  Weeds  were  growing  up  through  the  gravel,  and  
there  were  no  trucks  in
either side yard . . . only a single box, its sides rusty and dull.

Getting closer still, he saw that there was a realtor's FOR SALE sign in the 
window.

Tracker's  out  of  business,  he thought, and was surprised at the sadness the 
thought carried
with  it  .  .  .  as  if  someone  had  died.  He  was  glad  now  he  hadn't  
walked  over  to  West
Broadway.   If   Tracker   Brothers   could   have   gone   under  —   Tracker  
 Brothers,   which   had
seemed  eternal  —  what  might  have  happened  on  that  street  he  had  
liked  so  much  to  walk
down  as  a  kid?  He  realized  uneasily  that he didn't want to know. He 
didn't want to see Greta
Bowie  with  gray  in  her  hair,  her  hips  and  legs  thickened  with  much  
sitting  and  much  eating
and much drinking; it was better — safer — to just stay away.

That's  what  we  all  should  have  done,  just  stayed  away.  We've  got  no 
 business  here.
Coming back to where you grew up is like doing some crazy yoga trick, putting 
your feet in
your own mouth and somehow swallowing yourself so there's nothing left; it 
can't be done,
and any sane person ought to be fucking glad it can't . . . what do you suppose 
happened to
Tony and Phil Tracker, anyway?

A  heart  attack  for  Tony,  perhaps;  he  had  been  carrying  maybe  
seventy-five extra pounds of
meat on his bones. You had to watch out for what your heart might be up to. The 
poets might
romance  about  broken  hearts  and  Barry Manilow sing about them, and that 
was fine by Eddie
(he  and  Myra  had  every  album  Barry  Manilow  had  ever  recorded),  but  
he  himself  preferred  a
good  solid  EKG  every  year.  Sure,  Tony's  heart  had  probably  given  it  
up  as  a  bad  job.  And
Phil?  Bad  luck  on  the   highway  maybe.  Eddie,  who  made  his  living  
behind  the  wheel  himself
(or  had;  these  days  he  only  drove  the  celebs  and  spent  the  rest  of 
 his  tune  driving  a  desk),
knew  about  bad  luck  on  the  highway.  Old  Phil  might  have  jack-knifed  
a  rig  somewhere  in
New  Hampshire  or  in  the  Hainesville  Woods  up  north  in  Maine  when  
the  going  was  icy  or
maybe  he  had  lost  his  brakes  on  some  long  hill  south  of  Derry,  
heading  into  Haven  in  a
driving  springtime  rain.  Those  things  or  any  of  the  others  you  heard 
 in  those  shitkicking
country  songs  about  truck-drivers  who  wore  Stetson  hats  and  had  
cheating  on  their  minds.
Driving  a  desk  was  sometimes  lonely,  but  Eddie  had  been  in  the  
driver's  seat  himself  more
than  once,  his  aspirator  riding  there  with  him  on  the  dashboard,  its 
 trigger  reflected  ghostly  in
the  windshield  (and  a  bucket-load  of  pills  in  the  glove  compartment), 
 and  he  knew  that  real
loneliness  was  a  smeary  red:  the  color  of  the  taillights  of  the  car 
 ahead  of  you  reflected  on
wet hottop in a driving rain.

'Oh  shit  the  time  goes  by,'  Eddie  Kaspbrak  said  in  a  sighing  sort  
of  whisper,  and  was  not
even aware that he had spoken aloud.


Feeling  both  mellow  and  unhappy  —  a state more common to him than he ever 
would have
believed  —  Eddie  skirted  the  building,  Gucci  loafers  crunching  in  the 
 gravel,  to  look  at  the
lot  where  the  baseball  games  had  been  played  when  he  was  a  kid  — 
when, it seemed, ninety
percent of the world had been made up of kids.

The  lot  wasn't  much  changed,  but  a  look  was  enough  to  convince  him  
beyond  doubt  that
the  games  had  stopped  —  a  tradition  that  had  simply  died  out  at  
some  point  in  the  years
between, for reasons of its own.

In  1958  the  diamond  shape  of  the  infield  had  been  defined  not  by  
limed  basepaths  but  in
ruts  made  by  running  feet.  They  had  no  actual  bases,  those  boys  who 
 had  played  baseball
here  (boys  who  were  all  older  than  the  Losers,  although  Eddie  
remembered  now  that  Stan
Uris  had  sometimes  played;  his  batting  was  only  fair,  but  in  the  
outfield  he  could  run  fast  and
he  had  the  reflexes  of  an  angel),  but  four  pieces  of  dirty  canvas  
were  always  kept  under  the
loading-bay  behind  the  long  brick  building,  to  be  ceremonially  taken  
out  when  enough  kids
had  drifted  into  the  back  lot  to  play  ball,  and  just  as  
ceremonially  returned  when  the  shades  of
evening had fallen thickly enough to end further play.

Standing  here  now,  Eddie  could  see  no  trace  of  those  rutted  
basepaths.  Weeds  had  grown
up  through  the  gravel  in  patchy  profusion.  Broken  soda  and  beer  
bottles  twinkled  here  and
there;  in  the  old  days,  such  shards  of  broken  glass  had  been  
religiously  removed.  The  only
thing  that  was  the  same  was  the  chainlink  fence  at  the  back  of  the 
 lot,  twelve  feet  high  and  as
rusty as dried blood. It framed the sky in droves of diamond shapes.

That   was   home-run   territory,  Eddie  thought,  standing  bemused  with  
his  hands  in  his
pockets  at  the  place  where  home  plate  had  been  twenty-seven years ago. 
 Over the fence and
down  into  the  Barrens.  They  used  to  call  it  The  Automatic.  He  
laughed  out  loud  and  then
looked  around  nervously,  as  if  it  were  a  ghost  who  had  laughed  out  
loud  instead  of  a  guy  in
sixty-dollar slacks, a guy as solid as . . . well, as solid as . . . as . . .

Get off it, Eds,  Richie's voice seemed to whisper.  You ain't solid at all, 
and in the last few
years  the  chucks  have  been  few  and  far  between.  Right?  'Yeah, right,' 
Eddie said in a low
voice, and kicked a few loose stones away in a rattle.

In truth, he had only seen two balls go over the fence at the back of the lot 
behind Tracker

Brothers,  both  of  them  hit  by  the  same  kid:  Belch  Huggins.  Belch  
had  been  almost  comically
big,  already  six  feet  tall  at  twelve,  weighing  maybe  a  hundred  and  
seventy.  He  had  gotten  his
nickname  because  he  was  able  to  articulate  belches  of  amazing  length  
and  loudness — at his
best,   he sounded like a cross between a bullfrog and a cicada. Sometimes he 
would pat a hand
rapidly across his open mouth while belching, emitting a sound like a hoarse 
Indian.

Belch  had  been  big  and  not  really  fat,  Eddie  remembered  now,  but it  
was  as  if  God  had
never  really  intended  for  a  boy  of  twelve  to  attain  such  remarkable  
size;  if  he  had  not  died
that  summer,  he  might  have  grown  to  six-six  or  better,  and  might  
have  learned  along  the  way
how  to  maneuver  his  outsized  body  through  a  world  of  smaller  
denizens.  He  might  even,
Eddie  thought,  have  learned  gentleness.  But  at  twelve  he  had  been  
both  clumsy  and  mean,  not
retarded  but  almost  seeming  so  because  all  his  body's  actions  seemed  
so  amazingly  graceless
and  lunging.  He  had  none  of  Stanley's  built-in  rhythms;  it  was  as  
if  Belch's  body  did  not  talk
to  his  brain  at  all  but  existed  in  its  own  cosmos  of  slow  thunder. 
 Eddie  could  remember  the
evening  a  long,  slow  fly  ball  had  been  hit  directly  to  Belch's  
position  in  the  outfield  —  Belch
didn't   even   have   to   move.   He   stood   looking   up,   raised   his   
glove   in   an   almost   aimless
punching  gesture,  and  instead  of  settling  into  his  glove,  the  ball  
had  struck  him  squarely  on
top        of  the  head,  producing  a  hollow  bonk! sound. It was as if the 
ball had been dropped from
three stories up onto the roof of a Ford sedan. It bounced up a good four feet 
and came down
neatly   into   Belch's   glove.   An   unfortunate   kid   named   Owen   
Phillips   had   laughed   at   that
bonking  sound.  Belch  had  walked  over  to  him  and  had  kicked  his  ass  
so hard that the Phillips
kid  had  run  screaming  for  home  with  a  hole  in  the  seat  of  his  
pants.  No  one else laughed . . .


at  least  not  on  the  outside.  Eddie  supposed  that  if  Richie  Tozier  
had  been  there,  he  wouldn't
have  been  able  to  help  it,  and  Belch  probably  would  have  put  him  
in  the  hospital.  Belch  was
similarly  slow  at  the  plate.  He  was  easy  to  strike  out,  and  if  he  
hit  a  grounder  even  the  most
fumble-fingered  infielders  had  no  trouble  throwing  him  out  at  first.  
But  when  he  got  all  of
one,  it  went  a  long,  long way. The two balls Eddie had seen Belch hit over 
the fence had both
been  wonders.  The  first  had  never  been  recovered,  although  more  than  
a  dozen  boys  had
tramped  back  and  forth  over  the  steeply  slanting  slope  which  plunged  
down  into  the  Barrens,
looking for it.

The second, however,  had  been  recovered.  The  ball  belonged  to  another  
sixthgrader  (Eddie
could  not  now  remember  what  his  real  name  had  been,  only  that  all  
the  other  kids  called  him
Snuffy  because  he  always  had  a  cold)  and  had  been  in  use  for  most  
of  the  late  spring  and
early  summer  of  '58.  As  a  result,  it  was  no  longer  the  nearly  
perfect  spherical  creation  of
white  horsehide  and  red  stitching  that  it  had  been  when  it  came  out 
 of  the  box;  it  was  scuffed,
grassstained,  and  cut  in  several  places  by  its  hundreds  of  bouncing  
trips  over  the  gravel  in  the
outfield.   Its   stitching   was   beginning   to   come   unravelled   in   
one   place,   and   Eddie,   who
shagged  foul  balls  when  his  asthma  wasn't  too  bad  (relishing  every  
casual Thanks, kid!  when
he  threw  the  ball  back  to  the  playing  field),  knew  that  soon  
someone  would  produce  a  roll  of
Black Cat friction tape and embalm it so they could get another week or so out 
of it.

But  before  that  day  came,  a  seventhgrader  with  the  unlikely  name  of  
Stringer  Dedham
tossed  what  he  fancied  a  'change  of  speed'  pitch  to  Belch  Huggins.  
Belch  timed  the  pitch
perfectly  (the  slow  ones  were,  you  should  pardon  the  pun,  just  his  
speed)  and  hit  Snuffy's
elderly  Spalding  so  hard  that  the  cover  came  right  off  and  fluttered 
 down  just  a  few feet shy
of  second  base  like  a  big  white  moth.  The  ball  itself  had  continued 
 up  and  up  into  a  gorgeous
twilit  sky,  unravelling  and  unravelling  as  it  went,  kids  turning  to  
follow  its  progress  in  dumb
wonder;  up  and  over  the  chainlink  fence  it  went,  still  rising,  and  
Eddie  remembered  Stringer
Dedham  had  said  'Ho-ly  shit!'  in  a  soft  and  awestruck  voice  as  it  
went,  riding  a  track  into  the
sky,  and  they  had  all  seen  the  unwinding  string,  and  maybe  even  
before  it  hit,  six  boys  had
been   monkeying   up   that   fence,   and  Eddie  could  remember  Tony  
Tracker  laughing  in  an
amazed  loonlike  way  and  crying:  'That  one  would  have  been  out  of  
Yankee  Stadium!  Do  you
hear me? That one would have been out of fucking Yankee Stadium!'

It  had  been  Peter  Gordon  who  found  the  ball,  not  far  from  the  
stream  the  Losers'  Club
would  dam  up  less  than  three  weeks  later.  What  was  left  was  not  
even  three  inches  through
the center; it was some kind of cockeyed miracle that the twine had never 
broken.

By  unspoken  consent,  the  boys  had  brought  the  remains  of  Snuffy's  
ball  back  to  Tony
Tracker,  who  examined  it  without  saying  a  word,  surrounded  by  boys  
who  were  likewise
silent.  Seen  from  a  distance  that  circle  of  boys  standing  around  the 
 tall  man  with  the  big
sloping  belly  might  have  seemed  almost  religious  in  its  intent  —  the 
 veneration  of  a  holy
object.  Belch  Huggins  had  not  even  run  around  the  bases.  He  only  
stood  among  the  others
like a boy who had no precise idea of where he was. What Tony Tracker handed 
him that day
was smaller than a tennis ball.

Eddie,  lost  in  these  memories,  walked  from  the  place  where  home  had  
been,  across  the
pitcher's  mound  (only  it  had  never  been  a  mound;  it  had  been  a  
depression  from  which  the
gravel  had  been  scraped  clean),  and  out  into  shortstop  country.  He  
paused briefly, struck by
the  silence,  and  then  strolled  on  out  to  the  chainlink  fence.  It  
was  rustier  than  ever,  and
overgrown  by  some  sort  of  ugly  climbing  vine,  but  still  there.  
Looking  through  it,  he  could
see how the ground sloped away, aggressively green.

The   Barrens   were   more   junglelike   than   ever,   and   for   the   
first   time   he   found   himself
wondering  why  a  stretch  of  such  tangled  and  virulent  growth  should  
have  been  called  the
Barrens  at  all:  it  was  many  things,  but  barren  was  not  one  of  
them.  Why  not  ht e Wilderness?
Or the Jungle?


Barrens.

It  had  an  ominous,  almost  sinister  sound,  but  what  it  conjured  up  
in  the  mind  were  not
tangles  of  shrubs  and  trees  so  thick  they  had  to  fight  for  
sunspace;  it  called  up  pictures  of
sand  dunes  shifting  away  endlessly,  or  gray  slate  expanses  of  hardpan 
 and  desert.  Barren.
Mike  had  said  earlier  that  they  were  all  barren,  and  it  seemed  true 
 enough.  Seven  of  them,
and  not  a  kid  among  them.  Even  in  these  days  of  planned  parenthood, 
 that  was  bucking  the
odds.

He  looked  through  the  rusty  diamond -shapes,  hearing  the  far-away drone 
of cars on Kansas
Street,  the  faraway  trickle  and  rush  of  water  down  below.  He  could  
see  glints  of  it  in  the
spring  sunshine,  like  flashes  of  glass.  The  bamboo  stands  were  still  
down  there,  looking
unhealthily   white,   like   patches   of   fungus   in   all   the   green.   
Beyond   them,   in   the   marshy
stretches of ground bordering the Kenduskeag, there was supposed to have been 
quickmud.

I  spent  the  happiest  times  of  my  childhood  down  there  in  that  mess, 
  he  thought,  and
shivered.

He  was  about  to  turn  away  when  something  else  caught  his  eye:  a  
cement  cylinder  with  a
heavy steel cap on the top. Morlock holes, Ben used to call them, laughing with 
his mouth but
not  quite  laughing  with  his  eyes.  If  you  went over  to  one,  it  would 
 stand  maybe  waist-high on
you  (if  you  were  a  kid)  and  you  would  see  the  words  DERRY 
DEPARTMENT OF  PUBLIC WORKS
stamped  in  raised  metal  in  a  semicircle.  And  you  could  hear  a  
humming  noise  from  deep
inside. Some sort of machinery.

Morlock holes.

That's where we went. In August. In the end. We went into one of Ben's Morlock 
holes, into
the sewers, but after awhile they weren't sewers anymore. They were . . . were 
. . . what?

Patrick Hockstetter was down there. Before It took him Beverly saw him doing 
something

bad. It made her laugh but she knew it was bad. Something to do with Henry 
Bowers, wasn't
it? Yes, I think so. And —

He  turned  away  suddenly  and  started  back  toward  the  abandoned  depot,  
not  wanting  to
look  down  into  the  Barrens  anymore,  not  liking  the  thoughts  they  
conjured  up.  He  wanted  to
be home with Myra. He didn't want to be here. He . . .

'Catch, kid!'

He  turned  toward  the  sound  of  the  voice  and  here  came  some  sort  of 
 a  ball,  right  over  the
fence  and  toward  him.  It  struck  the  gravel  and  bounced.  Eddie  stuck  
out  his  hand  and  caught
it. In his unthinking reflex the catch was so neat it was almost elegant.

He  looked  down  at  what  was  in  his  hand  and  everything  inside  him  
went  cool  and  loose.
Once  it  had been a baseball. Now it was only a string-wrapped sphere, because 
the cover had
been  knocked  off.  He  could  see  the  string  trailing  away.  It  went  
over  the  top  of  the  fence  like
a strand of spiderweb and disappeared into the Barrens.

Oh Jesus, he thought. Oh Jesus, Its here, It's here with me NOW —

'Come  on  down  and  play,  Eddie,'  the  voice  on  the  other  side  of  the 
 fence  said,  and  Eddie
realized  with  a  fainting  sort  of  horror  that  it  was  the  voice  of  
Belch  Huggins,  who  had  been
murdered  in  the  tunnels  under  Derry  in  August  of  1958.  And  now  here 
 was  Belch  himself,
struggling up and over the bank on the other side of the fence.

He  wore  a  pinstriped  New  York  Yankees  baseball  uniform  that  was  
flecked  with  bits  of
autumn  leaves  and  smeared  with  green.   He  was  Belch  but  he  was  also 
 the  leper,  a  creature
hideously   arisen   from   long   years   in   a   wet   grave.   The   flesh  
 of   his   heavy   face   hung   in
putrescent  strings  and  runners.  One  eyesocket  was  empty.  Things  
squirmed  in  his  hair.  He
wore  a  moss-slimed  baseball-glo ve  on  one  hand.  He  poked  the  rotting  
fingers  of  his  right
hand  through  the  diamonds  of  the  chainlink  fence,  and  when  he  curled 
 them,  Eddie  heard  a
dreadful squirting sound which he thought might drive him mad.


'That  one  would  have  been  out  of  Yankee  Stadium,'  Belch  said,  and  
grinned.  A  toad,
noxiously  white  and  squirming,  dropped  from  his  mouth  and  tumbled  to  
the  ground.  'Do  you
hear me? That one would have been out of  fucking Yankee Stadium!  And by the 
way, Eddie,
do you want a blow job? I'll do it for a dime. Hell, I'll do it for free.'

Belch's  face  changed.  The  jellylike  bulb  of  nose  fell  in,  revealing  
two  raw  red  channels  that
Eddie  had  seen  in  his  dreams.  His  hair  coarsened  and  drew  back  from 
 his  temples,  turned
cobweb-white.  The  rotting  skin  on his  forehead  split  open,  revealing  
white  bone  covered  with
a  mucusy  substance,  like  the  bleared  lens  of  a  searchlight.  Belch  
was  gone;  the  thing  which
had been under the porch at 29 Neibolt Street was here now.

'Bobby  blows  me  for  a  dime,'  it  crooned, beginning to climb the fence. 
It left little pieces of
its  flesh  in  the  diamond  shapes  the  crisscrossing  wires  made.  The  
fence  jingled  and  rattled
with  its  weight.  When  it  touched  the  climbing,  vinelike  weeds,  they  
turned  black.  'He  will  do
it anytime. Fifteen cents for overtime.'

Eddie  tried  to  scream.  Nothing  but  a  dry  senseless  squeak  came  out  
of  him.  His  lungs  felt
like  the  world's  oldest  ocarinas.  He  looked  down  at  the  ball  in  his 
 hand  and  suddenly  blood
began to sweat up from between the wrapped  strings. It pattered to the gravel 
and splashed on
his loafers.

He  threw  it  down  and  took  two  lurching  stagger-steps  backward,  his  
eyes  bulging  from  his
face, rubbing his hands on the front of his shirt. The leper had reached the 
top of the fence. Its
head   swayed   in   silhouette   against   the   sky,   a   nightmare   shape  
 like   a   bloated   Halloween
jackolantern.  Its  tongue  lolled  out,  four  feet  long,  perhaps  six.  It  
twined  its  way  down  the
fence      like a snake from the leper's grinning mouth.

There one second . . . gone the next.

It  did  not  fade,  like  a  ghost  in  a  movie;  it  simply  winked  out  of 
 existence.  But  Eddie  heard
a  sound  which  confirmed  its  essential  solidity:  a  pop!  sound,  like  a 
 cork  blowing  out  of  a
champagne bottle. It was the sound of air rushing in to fill the place where 
the leper had been.

He turned and began to run, but before he had gone ten feet, four stiff shapes 
flew out from
the  shadows  under  the  loading-bay  of  the  abandoned  brick  depot.  He  
thought  at  first  they
were  bats  and  he  screamed and covered his head . . . Then he saw that they 
were squares of
canvas — the squares of canvas that had been the bases when the big kids played 
here.

They  whirled  and  twirled  in  the  still  air;  he  had  to  duck  to  avoid 
 one  of  them.  They  settled
in their accustomed places all at once, kicking up little puffs of grit: home, 
first, second, third.

Gasping,  his  breath  short  in  his  throat,  Eddie  ran  past  home  plate,  
his  lips  drawn  back,  his
face as white as cottage cheese.

WHACK! The sound of a bat hitting a phantom ball. And then —

Eddie  stopped,  the  strength  going  out  of  his  legs,  a  groan  passing  
his  lips.  The  ground  was
bulging  in  a  straight  line  from  home  to  first,  as  if  a  gigantic  
gopher  was  tunneling  rapidly  just
below  the  surface  of  the  ground.  Gravel  rolled  off  to  either  side.  
The  shape  under  the  earth
reached the base and the canvas flipped up into the air. It went up so hard and 
fast it made a
popping sound  —  the  sound  a  shoeshine  kid  makes  when  he's  feeling  
good  and  pops  the  rag.
The ground began to ridge between first and second, racing and racing. Second 
base flew into
the  air  with  a  similar  popping  sound  and  had  barely  settled  back  
before  the  shape  under  the
ground had reached third and was racing for home.

Home  plate  flew  up  as  well, but before it could come down the thing had 
popped out of the
ground  like  some  grisly  party-favor,  and  the  thing  was  Tony  Tracker,  
his  face  a  skull  to
which  a  few  blackened  chunks  of  flesh  still  clung,  his  white  shirt  
a  mess  of  rotted  linen
strings.  He  poked  out  of  the  earth  at  home  plate  from  the  waist  
up,  swaying  back  and  forth
like a grotesque worm.


'Don't  matter  how  much  you  choke  up  on  that  ash-handle,'  Tony  
Tracker  said  in  a  gritty,
grinding  voice.  Exposed  teeth  grinned  in  lunatic  chumminess.  'Don't  
matter,  Wheezy.  We'll
get you. You and your friends. We'll have a BAWL!'

Eddie  shrieked  and  staggered  away.  There  was  a  hand  on  his  shoulder. 
 He  shrank  away
from it. The hand tightened for a moment, then gave way. He turned. It was 
Greta Bowie. She
was  dead.  Half  of  her  face  was  gone;  maggots crawled  in  the  churned  
red  meat  that  was  left.
She held a green balloon in one hand.

'Car  crash,'  the  recognizable  half  of  her  mouth  said,  and  grinned.  
The  grin  caused  an
unspeakable  ripping  sound,  and  Eddie  could  see  raw  tendons  moving  
like  terrible  straps.  'I
was eighteen, Eddie. Drunk and done up on reds. Your friends are here, Eddie.'

Eddie  backed  away  from  her,  his  hands  held  up  in  front  of  his  
face.  She  walked  toward
him.  Blood  had  splashed,  then  dried  on  her  legs  in  long  splotches.  
She  was  wearing  penny-
loafers.

And  now,  beyond  her,  he  saw  the  ultimate  horror:  Patrick  Hockstetter  
was  shambling
toward him across the outfield. He too was wearing a New York Yankees uniform.

Eddie  ran.  Greta  clutched  at  him  again,  tearing  his  shirt  and  
spilling  some  terrible  liquid
down  the  back  of  his  collar.  Tony  Tracker  was  pulling  himself  out  
of  his  man-sized  gopher-
run.  Patrick  Hockstetter  stumbled  and  staggered.  Eddie  ran,  not  
knowing  where  he  was
finding  the  breath  to  run,  but  running  somehow  anyway.  And  as  he  
ran,  he  saw  words
floating  in  front  of  him,  the  words  that  had  been  printed  on  the  
side  of  the  green  balloon
Greta Bowie had been holding:

ASTHMA MEDICINE CAUSES LUNG CANCER!

COMPLIMENTS OF CENTER STREET DRUG

Eddie  ran.  He  ran  and  ran  and  at  some  point  he  collapsed  in  a  
dead  faint  near  McCarron
Park  and  some  kids  saw  him  and  steered  clear  of  him  because  he  
looked  like  a  wino  to  them
like  he  might  have  some  kind  of  weird  disease  for  all  they knew  he  
might  even  be  the  killer
and they talked about reporting him to the police but in the end they didn't.

3

Bev Rogan Pays a Call

Beverly  walked  absently  down  Main  Street  from  the  Derry  Town  House,  
where  she  had  gone
to  change  into  a  pair  of  bluejeans  and  a  bright  yellow  smock-blouse. 
 She  was  not  thinking
about where she was going. Instead she thought this:

Your hair is winter fire,
January embers.

My heart bums there, too.

She  had  hidden  that  in  her  bottom  drawer,  beneath  her  underwear.  Her 
 mother might have
seen  it,  but  that  was  all  right.  The  important  thing  was, that  was  
one  drawer  her  father  never
looked  in.  If  he  had  seen  it,  he  might  have  looked  at  her  with  
that  bright,  almost  friendly,  and
utterly   paralyzing   stare   of   his   and   asked   in   his   almost   
friendly   way:   'You   been   doing
something  you  shouldn't  be  doing,  Bev?  You  been  doing  something  with  
some  boy?'  And  if
she    said  yes  or  if  she  said  no,  there  would  be  a  quick  wham-bam, 
 so  quick  and  so  hard  it
didn't even hurt at first  —  it  took  a  few seconds  for  the  vacuum  to  
dissipate  and  the  pain  to


fill  the  place  were  the  vacuum  had  been.  Then  his  voice  again,  
almost  friendly:  'I  worry  a  lot

about you, Beverly. I worry an awful lot. You got to grow up, isn't that so?'

Her father might still be   living  here  in  Derry.  He  had  been  living  
here  the  last  time  she  had
heard  from  him,  but  that  had  been  .  .  .  how  long  ago?  Ten  years?  
Long  before  she  had
married  Tom,  anyway.  She  had  gotten  a  postcard  from  him,  not  a  
plain  postcard  like  the  one
the  poem  had  been  written  on  but  one  showing  the  hideous  plastic  
statue  of  Paul  Bunyan
which  stood  in  front  of  City  Center.  The  statue  had  been  erected  
sometime  in  the  fifties,  and
it  had  been  one  of  the  landmarks  of  her  childhood,  but  her  father's 
 card  had  called  up   no
nostalgia  or  memories  for  her;  it  might  as  well  have  been  a  card  
showing  Gateway  Arch  in
Saint Louis or the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco.

'Hope   you   are   doing   well   and   being   good,'   the   card   read.   
'Hope   you   will   send   me
something if you can, as I don't have much. I love you Bevvie. Dad.'

He  had  loved  her,  and  in  some  ways  she  supposed  that  had  everything 
 to  do  with  why  she
had  fallen  so  desperately  in  love  with  Bill  Denbrough  that  long  
summer  of  1958 — because
of  all  the  boys,  Bill  was  the  one  who  projected  the  sense  of  
authority  she  associated  with  her
father  .  .  .  but  it  was  a  different  sort  of  authority,  somehow  —  
it  was  authority  that  listened.
She  saw  no  assumption  in  either  his  eyes  or  his  actions  that  he  
believed  her  father's  kind  of
worrying  to be the only reason authority needed to exist . . . as if people 
were pets, to be both
cosseted and disciplined.

Whatever  the  reasons,  by  the  end  of  their  first  meeting  as  a  
complete  group  in  July  of  that
year,  that  meeting  of  which  Bill  had  taken  such  complete  and  
effortless  charge,  she  had  been
madly,  head-over-heels  in  love  with  him.  Calling  it  a  simple  
schoolgirl  crush  was  like  saying
a  Rolls-Royce  was  a  vehicle  with  four  wheels,  something  like  a  
hay-wagon.  She  did  not
giggle  wildly  and  blush  when  she  saw  him,  nor  did  she  chalk  his  
name  on  trees  or  write  it  on
the  walls  of  the  Kissing  Bridge.  She  simply  lived  with  his  face  in  
her  heart  all  the  time,  a  kind
of sweet, hurtful ache. She would have died for him.

It  was  natural  enough,  she  supposed,  for  her  to  want  to  believe  it  
had  been  Bill  who  sent
her  the  love-poem  .  .  .  although  she  had  never  gotten  so  far  gone  
as  to  actually  convince
herself it was so. No, she had known who wrote the poem. And later on  — at 
some point  —
hadn't  its  author  admitted  this  to  her?  Yes,  Ben  had  told  her  so  
(although  she  could  not  now
remember,  not  for  the  life  of  her,  just  when  or  under  what  
circumstances  he  had  actually  said
it              out  loud),  and  although  his  love  for  her  had  been  
almost  as  well  hidden  as  the  love she had
felt for Bill

(but you told him Bevvie you did you told him you loved)

it  was  obvious  to  anyone  who  really  looked  (and  who  was  kind)  —  it 
was in the way he
was  always  careful  to  keep  some  space  between  them,  in  the  draw  of  
his  breath  when she
touched  his  arm  or  his  hand,  in  the  way  he  dressed  when  he  knew  
he  was  going  to  see  her.
Dear, sweet, fat Ben.

It  had  ended  somehow,  that  difficult  pre-adolescent triangle, but just   
how  it had ended was
one  of  the  things  she  still  couldn't  remember.  She  thought  that  Ben  
had  confessed  authoring
and  sending  the  little  love-poem.  She  thought  she  had  told  Bill  she  
loved  him,  that  she  would
love  him  forever.  And  somehow,  those  two  tellings  had  helped  save  
all  of  their  lives  .  .  .  or
had   they?   She   couldn't  remember.  These  memories  (or  memories  of  
memories:  that  was
really  closer  to  what  they  were)  were  hike  islands  that  were  not  
really  islands  at  all  but  only
knobs of a single coral spine which happened to poke up above the waterline, 
not separate at
all  but  one  piece.  Yet  whenever  she  tried  to  dive  deep  and  see  the 
 rest,  a  maddening  image
intervened:   the   grackles   which   came   back   each   spring   to   New   
England,   crowding   the
telephone  lines,  trees  and  rooftops,  jostling  for  places  and  filling  
the  thawing  late-March air
with  their  raucous  gossip.  This  image  came  to  her  again  and  again,  
foreign  and  disturbing,
like a heavy radio beam that blankets the signal you really want to pick up.


She   realized   with   sudden   shock   that   she   was   standing   outside  
 of   the   Kleen-Kloze
Washateria,  where  she  and  Stan  Uris  and  Ben  and  Eddie  had  taken  the 
 rags  that  day  in  late
June         —  rags  stained  with  blood  which  only  they  could  see.  The 
 windows  were  now  soaped
opaque  and  there  was  a  hand-lettered  FOR  SALE  BY  OWNER  sign  taped  
to  the  door. Peering
between  the  swashes  of  soap,  she  could  see  an  empty  room  with  
lighter  squares  on  the  dirty
yellow walls where the washers had stood.

I'm going home, she thought dismally, but walked on anyway.

This  neighborhood  hadn't  changed  much.  A  few  more  of  the  trees  were  
gone,  probably
elms  felled  by  disease.  The  houses  looked  a  little  tackier;  broken  
windows  seemed  slightly
more  common  than  they  had  been  when  she  was  a  girl.  Some  of  the  
broken  panes  had  been
replaced with cardboard. Some hadn't.

And  here  she  stood  in  front  of  the  apartment  house,  127  Lower  Main  
Street.  Still  here.  The
peeling  white  she  remembered  had  become  a  peeling  chocolate  brown  at  
some  point  during
the  years  between,  but  it  was  still  unmistakable.  There  was  the  
window  which  looked  in  on
what had been their kitchen; there was the window of her bedroom.

(Jim Doyon, you come out of that road! Come out right now, you want to get run 
over and
killed?)

She  shivered,  hugging  her  arms  across  her  breasts  in  an  X,  cupping  
her  elbows  in  her
palms.

Daddy could still be living here; oh yes he could. He wouldn't move unless he 
had to. Just
walk on up there, Beverly. Look at the mailboxes. Three boxes for three 
apartments, just like
in the old days. And if there's one which says MARSH, you can ring the bell and 
pretty soon
there'll be the shuffle of slippers down the hall and the door will open and 
you can look at
him, the man whose sperm made you redheaded and lefthanded and gave you the 
ability to
draw . . . remember how he used to draw? He could draw anything he wanted. If 
he felt like
it, that is. He didn't feel like it often. I guess he had too many things to 
worry about. But when
he did, you used to sit for hours and watch while he drew cats and dogs and 
horses and cows
with MOO  coming out of their mouths in balloons. You'd laugh and he'd laugh 
and then he'd
say Now you, Bevvie, and when you held the pen he'd guide your hand and you'd 
see the cow
or  the  cat  or  the  smiling  man  unspooling  beneath  your  own  fingers  
while  you  smelled his
Mennen Skin Bracer and the warmth of his skin. Go on up, Beverly. Ring the 
bell. He'll come
and he'll be old, the lines will be drawn deep in his face and his teeth — 
those that are left —
will be yellow, and he'll look at you, and he'll say Why it's Bevvie, Bevvie's 
come home to see
her old dad, come on in Bevvie, I'm so glad to see you, I'm glad because I 
worry about you
Bevvie, I worry a LOT.

She  walked  slowly  up  the  path,  and  the  weeds  growing  up  between  the 
 cracked  concrete
sections  brushe d  at  the  legs  of  her  jeans.  She  looked  closely  at  
the  first-floor  windows,  but
they  were  curtained  off.  She  looked  at  the  mailboxes.  Third  floor,   
STARK-WEATHER.  Second
floor, BURKE. First floor — her breath caught — MARSH.

But I won't ring. I don't want to see him. I won't ring the bell.

This  was  a  firm  decision,  at  last!  The  decision  that  opened  the  
gate  to  a  full  and  useful
lifetime  of  firm  decisions!  She  walked  down  the  path!  Back  to  
downtown!  Up  to  the  Derry
Town   House!   Packed!   Cabbed!   Flew!   Told   Tom   to   bug   out!   
Lived   successfully!   Died
happily!

Rang the bell.

She  heard  the  familiar  chimes  from  the  living  room  —  chimes  that  
had  always  sounded  to
her  like  a  Chinese  name:  Ching-Chong!  Silence.  No  answer.  She  shifted 
 on  the  porch  from
one foot to the other, suddenly needing to pee.

No one home, she thought, relieved. I can go now.


Instead  she  rang  again:  Ching-Chong!  No  answer.  She  thought  of  Ben's  
lovely  little  poem
and  tried  to  remember  exactly  when  and  how  he  had  confessed  its  
authorship, and why, for a
brief  second,  it  called  up  an  association  with  having  her  first  
menstrual  period.  Had  she  begun
menstruating  at  eleven?  Surely  not,  although  her  breasts  had  begun  
their  first  achy  growth
around  mid-winter.  Why  .  .  .  ?  Then,  intervening,  a  mental  picture  
of  thousands  of  grackles
on phone lines and rooftops, all babbling at a white spring sky.

I'll leave now. I've rung twice; that's enough.

But she rang again.

Ching-Chong!

Now  she  heard  someone  approaching,  and  the  sound  was  just  as  she  
had  imagined:  the
tired  whisper  of  old  slippers.  She  looked  around  wildly  and  came  
very,  very  close  to  just
taking  to  her  heels.  Could  she  make  it  down  the  cement  walk  and  
around  the  corner,  leaving
her  father  to  think  it  had  been  nothing  but kids playing pranks?  Hey  
mister,  you  got  Prince
Albert in a can . . . ?

She  let  out  a  sudden  sharp  breath  and  had  to  tighten  her  throat  
because  what  wanted  to
come out was a laugh of relief. It wasn't her father at all. Standing in the 
doorway and  looking
out  at  her  was  a  tall  woman  in  her  late  seventies.  Her  hair  was  
long  and  gorgeous,  mostly
white  but  shot  through  with  lodes  of  purest  gold.  Behind  her  rimless 
 spectacles  were  eyes  as
blue as the water in the fjords her ancestors had perhaps hailed  from. She 
wore a purple dress
of watered silk. It was shabby but still dignified. Her wrinkled face was kind.

'Yes, miss?'

'I'm  sorry,'  Beverly  said.  The  urge  to  laugh  had  passed  as  swiftly  
as  it  had  come.  She
noticed  that  the  old  woman  wore  a  cameo  at  her  throat.  It  was  
almost  certainly  real  ivory,
surrounded  by  a  band  of  gold  so  thin  it  was  nearly  invisible.  'I  
must  have  rung  the  wrong
bell.' Or rang the wrong bell on purpose, her mind whispered. 'I meant to ring 
for Marsh.'

'Marsh?' Her forehead wrinkled delicately.
'Yes, you see — '

'There's no Marsh here,' the old woman said.
'But — '

'Unless . . . you don't mean Alvin Marsh, do you?'
'Yes!' Beverly said. 'My father!'

The  old  woman's  hand  rose  to  the  cameo  and  touched  it.  She  peered  
more  closely  at
Beverly,  making  her  feel  ridiculously  young,  as  if  she  should  perhaps 
 have  a  box  of  Girl
Scout  cookies  in  her  hands,  or  maybe  some  tags   —  support  the  Derry 
 High  School  Tigers.
Then the old woman smiled . . . a kind smile that was nonetheless sad.

'Why  you  have  fallen  out  of  touch,  miss.  I  don't  want  to  be  the  
one  who  tells  you  this,  a
stranger, but your father has been dead these last five years.'

'But . . . on the bell . . . ' She looked again and uttered a small, bewildered 
sound that was
not  quite  a  laugh.  In  her  agitation,  in  her  subconscious  but  
rock-solid  certainty  that  her  old
man would still be here, she had read KERSH as MARSH.

'You're   Mrs   Kersh?'   she   asked.   She   was   staggered   by   this   
news   of   her   father,
but   she   also   felt   stupid   about   the   mistake   —   the   lady   
would   think   her   little   more

than illiterate.

'Mrs Kersh,' she agreed.

'You . . . did you know my dad?'

'Very  little  did  I  know  him,'  Mrs  Kersh  said.  She  sounded  a  little  
like  Yoda  in  The Empire
Strikes  Back,  and  Beverly  felt  like  laughing  again.  When  had  her  
emotions  gone  whipsawing
so  violently  back  and  forth?  The  truth  was  she  couldn't  remember  a  
time  .  .  .  but  she  was
dismally  afraid  she  would  before  much  longer.  'He  rented  the  
ground-floor  apartment  before


me.  We  saw  each  other,  me  coming  and  him  going,  over  a  space  of  a 
 few  days.  He  moved
down to Reward Lane. Do you know it?'

'Yes,'  Beverly  said.  Roward  Lane  branched  off  from  Lower  Main  Street  
four  blocks  farther
down, where the apartment buildings were smaller and even more desperately 
shabby.

'I  used  to  see  him  at  the  Costello  Avenue  Market  sometimes,'  Mrs  
Kersh  said,  'and  at  the
Washateria  before  they  closed  it.  We  passed  a  word  from  time  to  
time.  We  —  girl, you're
pale. I'm sorry. Come in and let me give you tea.'

'No,  I  couldn't,'  Beverly  said  weakly,  but  in  fact  she  actually  felt 
 pale,  like  clouded  glass
that you could nearly look through. She could use tea, and a chair in which to 
sit and drink it.

'You  could  and  you  will,' Mrs Kersh said warmly. 'It's the least I can do 
for having told you
such unpleasant news.'

Before  she  could  protest,  Beverly  found  herself  being  led  up  the  
gloomy  hall  and  into  her
old  apartment,  which  now  seemed  much  smaller  but  safe  enough  —  safe, 
 she  supposed,
because  almost  everything  was  different.  Instead  of  the  pink-topped  
Formica  table  with  its
three  chairs,  there  was  a  small  round  table,  really  not  much  bigger  
than  an  endtable,  with  silk
flowers  in  a  pottery  vase.  Instead  of  the  old  Kelvinator  refrigerator 
 with  the  round  drum  on
top  (her  father  tinkered  with  it  constantly  to  keep  it  going),  there 
 was  a  copper-colored
Frigidaire.   The   stove   was   small   but   efficient-looking.  There  was  
an  Amana  Radar  Range
above  it.  Bright  blue  curtains  hung  in  the  windows,  and  she  could  
see  flowerboxes  outside
them.  The  floor,  linoleum  when  she  was  a  girl  here,  had  been  
stripped  to  its  original  wood.
Many applications of oil made it glow mellowly.

Mrs  Kersh  looked  around  from  the  stove,  where  she  was  placing a  
teapot.  'You  grew  up

here?'

'Yes,' Beverly said. 'But it's very different now . . . so trim and tidy . . . 
wonderful!'

'How kind you are,' Mrs Kersh said, and her smile made her younger. It was 
radiant. 'I have
a  little  money,  you  see.  Not  much,  but with my Social Security I am 
comfortable. Once I was
a  girl  in  Sweden.  I  came  to  this  country  in  1920,  a  girl  of  
fourteen  with  no  money — which is
the best way to learn the value of money, would you agree?'

'Yes,' Bev said.

'At the hospital I  worked,' Mrs Kersh said. 'Many years — from 1925 I worked 
there. I rose
to  the  position  of  head  housekeeper.  All  the  keys  I  had.  My  husband 
 invested  our  money
quite well. Now I have reached a little harbor. Look around, miss, while the 
water boils!'

'No, I couldn't — '

'Please . . . still I feel guilty. Look, if you like!'

And  so  she  did  look.  Her  parents'  bedroom  was  now  Mrs  Kersh's  
bedroom,  and  the
difference  was  profound.  The  room  seemed  brighter  and  airier  now.  A  
large  cedar  chest,  the
initials  RG  inlaid  into  it,  breathed  its  gentle  aroma  into  the  air.  
A  gigantic  surprise-quilt  lay
on  the  bed.  On  it  she  could  see  women  drawing  water,  boys  driving  
cattle,  men  building
haystacks. A wonderful quilt.

Her  room  had  become  a  sewing  room.  A  black  Singer  machine  stood  on  
a  wrought-iron
table  under  a  pair  of  starkly  efficient  Tensor  lamps.  A  picture  of  
Jesus  hung  on  one  wall,  a
picture of John F. Kennedy on another. A beautiful breakfront stood below the 
picture of JFK

— it was filled with books instead of china, but seemed none the worse for 
that.

She went into the bathroom last.

It  had  been  redone  in  a  rose  color  that  was  too  low  and  pleasant  
to  seem  gaudy.  All  of  the
fixtures   were   new,   and   yet   she   approached   the   basin   feeling  
that  the  old   nightmare   had
gripped  her  again;  she  would  peer  down  into  that  black  and  lidless  
eye,  the  whispering  would
begin, and then the blood —


She leaned over the sink, catching a glimpse of her pallid face and dark eyes 
in the mirror
over  the  basin,  and  then  she  stared  into  that  eye,  waiting  for  the  
voices,  the  laughter,  the
groans, the blood.

How  long  might  she  have  stood  there,  bent  over  the  sink,  waiting  
for  the  sights  and  sounds
twenty-seven  years  gone,  she  didn't  know;  it  was  Mrs  Kersh's  voice  
that  bid her return: 'Tea,
miss!'

She  jerked  back,  the  semi-hypnosis  broken,  and  left  the  bathroom.  If  
there  had  been  dark
magic somewhere down in that drain, it was gone now . . . or was sleeping.

'Oh, you shouldn't have!'

Mrs  Kersh  looked  up  at  her  brightly,  smiling  a  little.  'O  miss,  if  
you  knew  how  seldom
company calls these days, you'd not say so. Why, I put on more than this for 
the man from the
Bangor Hydro who comes to read my meter! I'm making him fat!'

Delicate  cups  and  saucers  stood  on  the  round  kitchen  table,  a  clean  
bone-white edged with
blue. There was a plate of small cakes and cookies. Beside the sweets a pewter 
teapot chuffed
mild  steam  and  pleasant  fragrance.  Bemused,  Bev  thought  that  the  only 
 things  missing  were
the  tiny  sandwiches  with  the  crusts  cut  off:  auntsandwiches,  she'd  
thought  them,  always  one
word.  Three  main  types  of  auntsandwiches   —  cream  cheese  and  olive,  
watercress,  and  egg
salad.

'Sit down,' said Mrs Kersh. 'Sit down, miss, and I'll pour out.'

'I'm not a mis s,' Beverly said, and raised her left hand so that her ring 
would show.

Mrs  Kersh  smiled  and  pushed  a  hand  through  the  air  —  pshaw!  the 
gesture said. 'I call all
the pretty young girls miss,' she said. 'Just a habit. Don't take offense.'

'No,'  Beverly  said,  'not  at  all.'  But  for  some  reason  she  felt  a  
feather-touch of unease: there
was  something  in  the  old  woman's  smile  that  had  seemed  a  little  .  
.  .  what?  Unpleasant?
False? Knowing? But that was ridiculous, wasn't it?

'I love what you've done to the place.'

'Do  you?'  Mrs  Kersh  said,  and  poured  out.  The  tea  looked  dark,  
muddy.  Beverly  wasn't
sure she wanted to drink it . . . and suddenly she wasn't sure she wanted to be 
here at all.

It did say Marsh under the doorbell, her mind whispered suddenly, and she was 
frightened.

Mrs Kersh passed her tea.

Thank  you,'  Beverly  said.  The  look  of  it  might  have  been  muddy;  the 
 aroma,  however,  was
wonderful. She tasted. It was fine.  Stop jumping at shadows,  she told 
herself. That cedar chest
in particular is a wonderful piece.'

'An  antique,  that  one!'  Mrs  Kersh  said,  and  laughed.  Beverly  noticed  
that  the  old  woman's
beauty  was  flawed  on  only  one  score,  and  that  was  common  enough here 
in the northlands.
Her  teeth  were  very  bad  —  strong-looking,  but  bad  all  the  same.  
They  were  yellow,  and  the
front two had crossed each other. The canines seemed very long, almost like 
tusks.

They were white . . . when she came to the door she smiled and you thought to 
yourself how
white they were.

Suddenly  she  was  not  just  a  little  frightened.  Suddenly  she  wanted  — 
 needed   —  to  be
away from here.

'Very old, oh yes!' Mrs Kersh exclaimed, and drank her cup of tea off at a 
single gulp, with

a  sudden,  shocking  slurping  sound.  She  smiled  at  Beverly —  grinned  at 
her  —  and Beverly
saw that the woman's eyes had changed, too. The corneas were now yellow, 
ancient, threaded
with  bleary  stitches  of  red.  Her  hair  was  thinner;  the  braid  looked  
malnourished,  no  longer
silver shot with bright yellow but a dull gray.

'Very  old,'  Mrs  Kersh  reminisced  over  her  empty  cup,  looking  slyly  
at  Beverly  from  her
yellowed  eyes.  Her  snaggle  teeth  showed  in  that  repulsive,  almost  
leering  grin.  'From  home
with me it came. The RG carved into it? You noticed?'


'Yes.' Her voice came from far away, and a part of her brain yammered  If she 
doesn't know
you've seen the change perhaps you're still all right, if she doesn't know, 
doesn't see —

'My  father,'  she  said,  pronouncing  it  fodder,  and  Beverly  saw  that  
her  dress  had  also
changed.  It  had  become  a  scabrous,  peeling  black.  The  cameo  was  a  
skull,  its  jaw  hung  in  a
diseased  gape.  'His  name  was  Robert  Gray,  better  known  as  Bob  Gray,  
better  known  as
Pennywise  the  Dancing  Clown.  Although  that  was  not  his  name,  either.  
But  he  did  love  his
joke, my fadder.'

She  laughed  again.  Some  of  her  teeth  had  turned  as  black  as  her  
dress.  The  wrinkles  in  her
skin  now  cut  deep.  Her  milk-rose  skin  had  gone  a  sickly  yellow.  Her 
 ringers  were  claws.  She
grinned  at  Beverly.  'Have  something  to  eat,  dear.'  Her  voice  had  
risen  half  an  octave,  but  the
octave  was  cracked  in  this  register,  and  her  voice  was  the  sound  of 
 a  crypt  door  swinging
mindlessly on hinges clogged with black earth.

'No,  thank  you,'  Beverly  heard  her  mouth  say  in  a  child's  high  
oh-I-must-be-going  voice.
The  words  did  not  seem  to  originate  in  her  brain;  rather  they  came  
out  of  her  mouth  and  then
had to travel around to her ears before she was aware of what she had said.

'No?' the witch asked, and grinned. Her claws scrabbled on the  plate and she 
began to cram
thin  molasses  cookies  and  delicate  frosted  slices  of  cake  into  her  
mouth  with  both  hands.  Her
horrid  teeth  plunged  and  reared,  plunged  and  reared;  her  fingernails,  
long  and  dirty,  dug  into
the  sweets;  crumbs  tumbled  down  the  bony  slab  of  her  chin.  Her  
breath  was  the  smell  of
long-dead things burst wide open by the gases of their own decay. Her laugh was 
now a dead
cackle. Her hair was thinner. Scaly scalp showed in patches.

'Oh,  he  loved  his  joke,  my  fadder!  This  is  a  joke,  miss, if you 
enjoy them: my fadder bore

me rather than my mutter. He shat me from his asshole! Hee! Hee! Hee!'

'I ought to go,' Beverly heard herself say in that same high wounded voice  — 
the voice of a
small  girl  who  has  been  viciously  embarrassed  at   her  first  party.  
There  was  no  strength  in  her
legs.  She  was  dimly  aware  that  it  was  not  tea  in  her  cup  but  
shit,  liquid  shit,  a  little  party-
favor from the sewers under the city. She had  drunk some of that, not much but 
a sip, oh God,
oh God, oh blessed Jesus, please, please —

The  woman  was  shrinking  before  her  eyes,  thinning;  it  was  now  a  
crone  with  an  apple-

doll's  face  who  sat  across  from  her,  giggling  in  a  high,  squealing  
voice  and  rocking  back  and
forth.

'Oh my fadder and I are one,' she said,  'just me, just him, and dear, if you 
are wise you will
run,  run  back  to  where  you  came  from,  run  quickly,  because  to  stay  
will  mean  worse  than
your death. No one who dies in Derry really dies. You knew that before; believe 
it now.'

In  slow  motion  Beverly  gathered  her  legs  under  her.  As  if  from  
outside  she  saw  herself
gaining  her  feet  and  backing  away  from  the  table  and  from  the  witch 
 in  an  agony  of  horror
and  disbelief,  disbelief  because  she  realized  for  the  first  time  that 
 the  neat  little  dining-room
table  was  not  dark  oak  but  fudge.  Even  as  she  watched,  the  witch,  
still  giggling,  her  ancient
yellow  eyes  slanted  slyly  off  into  the  corner  of  the  room,  broke  a  
piece  of  it  off  and  stuffed  it
avidly into the black-ringed trap that was her mouth.

The cups,  she  saw,  were  white  bark  that  had  been  carefully  looped  
with  blue-dyed frosting.
The  pictures  of  Jesus  and  John  Kennedy  were  creations  of  nearly  
transparent  spun  sugar,  and
as she looked at them, Jesus stuck out His tongue and Kennedy dropped a stinky 
wink.

'We're  all  waiting  for  you!'  the  witch  screamed,  and  her  fingernails  
scrabbled  over  the
surface of the fudge table, drawing deep scars in its shining surface. 'Oh yes! 
Oh yes!'

The  overhead  lights  were  globes  of  hard  candy.  The  wainscotting  was  
caramel  taffy.  She

looked  down  and  saw  that  her  shoes  were  leaving  prints  on  the  
floorboards,  which  were  not
boards at all but slices of chocolate. The smell of candy was cloying.

Oh  God  it's  Hansel  and  Gretel  it's  the  witch  the  one  that  always  
scared  me  the  worst

because she ate the children —


'You and your friends!'  the witch screamed, laughing.'  You and your friends! 
In the cage!
In the cage until the oven's hot!'  She screamed laughter, and Beverly ran for 
the door, but she
ran  as  if  in  slow  motion.  The  witch's  laughter  beat  and  swirled  
around  her  head,  a  cloud  of
bats.  Beverly  shrieked.  The  hall  stank  of  sugar  and  nougat  and  
toffee  and  sickening  synthetic
strawberries.  The  doorknob,  mock  crystal  when  she  came  in,  was  now  a 
 monstrous  sugar
diamond.

'I worry about you, Bevvie . . . I worry a LOT!'

She  turned,  swirls  of  red  hair  floating  around  her  face,  to  see  her 
 father  staggering  toward
her  down  the  hallway,  wearing  the  witch's  black  dress  and  skull  
cameo;  her  father's  face  hung
with    doughy,   running   flesh,   his   eyes   as   black   as   obsidian,   
his   hands   clenching   and
unclenching, his mouth grinning with soupy fervor.

'I  beat you because I wanted to FUCK you, Bevvie, that's all I wanted to do, I 
wanted to
FUCK you, I wanted to EAT you, I wanted to eat your PUSSY, I wanted to SUCK 
your CLIT
up between my teeth, YUM-YUM, Bevvie, oooohhhhh, YUMMY IN MY TUMMY, I wanted to
put you in the cage . . . and get the oven hot . . . and feel your CUNT . . . 
your plump CUNT . .

. and when it was plump enough to eat . . . to eat . . . EAT . . . '

Screaming, she grasped the sticky doorknob and bolted out onto a porch that was 
decorated
with  praline  doodads  and  floored  with  fudge.  Far  away,  dim,  seeming  
to  swim  in  her  vision,
she  saw  cars  passing  back  and  forth,  and  a  woman  pushing  a  cartful  
of  groceries  back  from
Costello's.

I have  to  get  out  there,  she thought, just barely coherent.  That's 
reality out there, if I can
only get out to the sidewalk —

'Won't do you any good to run, Bevvie,' her father

(my fadder)

told  her,  laughing.  'We've  waited  a  long  time  for  this.  This  is  
going  to  be  fun.  This is going
to be YUMMY in our TUMMIES.'

She looked back again and now her dead father was not wearing the witch's black 
dress but
the  clown  suit  with  the  big  orange  buttons.  There  was  a  1958-style  
coonskin  cap,  the  kind
popularized  by  Fess  Parker  in  the  Disney  movie  about  Davy  Crockett,  
perched  on  its  head.  In
one  hand  it  held  a  bunch  of  balloons.  In  the  other  it  held  the  
leg  of  a  child  like  a  chicken
drumstick. Written on each balloon was the legend IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE.

'Tell  your  friends  I  am  the  last  of  a  dying  race,'  it  said,  
grinning  its  sunken  grin  as  it

staggered  and  lurched  down  the  porch  steps  after  her.  'The  only  
survivor  of  a  dying planet. I
have  come  to  rob  all  the  women  .  .  .  rape  all  the  men  .  .  .  
and  learn  to  do  the  Peppermint
Twist!'

It  began  to  do  a  mad  shuck-and-jive,  balloons  in  one  hand,  severed,  
bleeding  leg  in  the
other.  The  clown  costume  writhed  and  flapped,  but  Beverly  felt  no  
wind.  Her  legs  tangled  in
each  other  and  she  spilled  to  the  pavement,  throwing  out  her  palms  
to  take  up  the  shock,
which  went  all  the  way  to  her  shoulders.  The  woman  pushing  the  
grocery  cart  paused  and
looked back doubtfully, then hurried on a little faster.

The  clown  came  toward  her  again,  casting  the  severed  leg  aside.  It  
landed  on  the  lawn  with
an   indescribable   thud.   Beverly   only   lay   sprawled   on   the   
pavement   for   a   moment,   sure
somewhere inside that she must wake soon, this couldn't be real, had to be a 
dream —

She  realized  that  wasn't  true  a  moment  before  the  clown's  crooked,  
long-clawed  fingers
touched her. It was real; it could kill her. As it had killed the children.

'The grackles know your real name!'  she screamed at it suddenly. It recoiled, 
and it seemed

to her that for a moment the grin on the lips inside the great red grin that 
had been painted on
and around them became a grimace of hate and pain . . . and perhaps of fear as 
well. It might
only  have  been  her  imagination,  and  she  certainly  had  no  idea  why  
she  had  said  such  a  crazy
thing, but it bought her an instant of time.


She was on her feet and running. Brakes squealed and a hoarse voice, both mad 
and scared,
yelled:   'Why   don't   you   look   where   you're   going,   you   dumb   
quiff!'   She   had   a   blurred
impression  of  the  bakery  truck  that  had  almost  hit  her  when  she  
bolted  into  the  street  like  a
child  after  a  rubber  ball,  and  then  she  was  standing  on  the  
opposite  sidewalk,  panting,  a  hot
stitch in her left side. The bakery truck went on down Lower Main.

The clown was gone. The leg was gone. The house still stood there, but she saw 
now that it
was  crumbling  and  deserted,  the  windows  boarded  up,  the  steps  leading 
 up  to  the  porch
cracked and broken.

Was I really in there, or did I dream it all?

But her jeans were dirty, her yellow blouse smeared with dust.
And there was chocolate on her fingers.

She rubbed them on the legs of her jeans and walked away fast, her face hot, 
her back cold
as ice, her eyeballs seeming to pulse in and out with the rapid thud of her 
heart.

We can't beat It. Whatever It is, we can't beat It. It even wants us to try — 
It wants to settle
the old score. Can't be happy with a draw, I guess. We ought to get out of here 
. . . just leave.

Something brushed against her calf, light as a cat's questing paw.

She  jerked  away  from  it  with  a  little  shriek.  She  looked  down  and  
cringed,  one  hand
against her mouth.

It  was  a  balloon,  as  yellow  as  her  blouse.  Written  on  the  side  of  
it  in  electric blue were the
words THAT'S WIGHT, WABBIT.

As   she   watched,   it   went   bouncing   lightly   up   the   street,   
urged   by   the   pleasant

late-spring breeze.

4

Richie Tozier Makes Tracks

Well, there was the day Henry and his friends chased me — before the end of 
school, this was

. . .

Richie  was  walking  along  Outer  Canal  Street,  past  Bassey  Park.  Now  
he  stopped,  hands
stuffed in his pockets, looking toward the .Kissing Bridge but not really 
seeing it.

I got away from them in the toy department of Freese's . . .

Since  the  mad  conclusion  of  the  reunion  lunch,  he  had  been  walking  
aimlessly,  trying  to
make his peace with the awful things which had been in the fortune cookies . . 
. or the things
which had  seemed  to  be  in  the  cookies.  He  thought  that  most  likely  
nothing  at  all  had  come
out of them. It had been a group hallucination brought on by all the spooky 
shit they had been
talking  about.  The  best  proof  of  the  hypothesis  was  that  Rose  had  
seen  nothing  at  all.  Of
course,  Beverly's  parents  had  never  seen  any of the blood that came out 
of the bathroom drain
either, but this wasn't the same.

No? Why not?

'Because  we're  grownups  now,'  he  muttered,  and  discovered  the  thought  
had  absolutely  no
power or logic at all; it might as well have been a nonsense line from a kid's 
skip -rope chant.

He started to walk again.

I went up by City Center and sat down on a park bench for awhile and I thought 
I saw . . .

He stopped again, frowning.
Saw what?

. .. but that was just something I dreamed.
Was it? Was it really?


He  looked  to  the  left  and  saw  the  big  glass-brick-and-steel  building  
that  had  looked  so
modern in the late fifties and now looked rather antique and tacky.

And  here  I  am,  he  thought.  Right  back  to  fucking  City  Center.  Scene 
 of  that  other
hallucination. Or dream. Or whatever it was.

The  others  saw  him  as  the  Klass  Klown,  the  Krazy  Kut-up, and he had 
fallen neatly and
easily  into  that  role  again.  Ah,  we  all  fell  neatly  and  easily  back 
 into  our  old  roles  again,
didn't  you   notice?  But  was  there  anything  very  unusual  about  that?  
He  thought  you  would
probably  see  much  the  same  thing  at  any  tenth  or  twentieth  high  
school  reunion —  the class
comedian  who  had  discovered  a  vocation  for  the  priesthood  in  college  
would,  after  two
drinks,  revert  almost  automatically  to  the  wiseacre  he  had  been;  the  
Great  English  Brain  who
had  wound  up  with  a  GM  truck  dealership  would  suddenly  begin  
spouting  off  about  John
Irving  or  John  Cheever;  the  guy  who  had  played  with  the  Moondogs  on 
 Saturday  nights and
who  had  gone  on  to  become  a  mathematics  professor  at  Cornell  would  
suddenly  find  himself
on  stage  with  the  band,  a  Fender  guitar  strapped  over  his  shoulder,  
whopping  out  'Gloria'  or
'Surfin'  Bird'  with  gleeful  drunken  ferocity.  What  was  it  Springsteen  
said?  No  retreat,  baby,
no  surrender  .  .  .  but  it  was  easier  to  believe  in  the  oldies  on  
the  record-player after a couple
of drinks or some pretty good Panama Red.

But,  Richie  believed,  it  was  the  reversion  that  was  the  
hallucination,  not  the  present life.
Maybe  the  child  was  the  father  of  the  man,  but  fathers  and  sons  
often  shared  very  different
interests and only a passing resemblance. They —

But you say  grownups  and  now  it  sounds  like  nonsense;  it  sounds  like  
so  much  bibble-
babble. Why is that, Richie? Why?

Because Derry is as weird as ever. Why don't we just leave it at that?

Because things weren't that simple, that was why.

As   a   kid   he   had   been   a   goof-off,  a  sometimes  vulgar,  
sometimes  amusing  comedian,
because  it  was  one  way  to  get  along  without  getting  killed  by  kids  
like  Henry  Bowers  or
going  absolutely  loony-tunes  with  boredom  and  loneliness.  He  realized  
now  that  a  lot  of  the
problem  had  been  his  own  mind,  which  was  usually  moving  at  a  speed  
ten  or  twenty  times
that  of  his  classmates.  They  had  thought  him  strange,  weird,  or  even 
 suicidal,  depending  on
the  escapade  in  question,  but  maybe  it  had  been  a  simple  case  of  
mental  overdrive  —  if
anything about being in constant mental overdrive was simple.

Anyway,  it  was  the  sort  of  thing  you  got  under  control  after  awhile 
 —  you  got  it  under
control   or   you   found   outlets   for   it,   guys   like   Kinky   
Briefcase   or   Buford   Kissdrivel,   for
instance.  Richie  had  discovered  that  in  the  months  after  he  had  
wandered  into  the  college
radio  station,  pretty  much  on  a  whim,  and  had  discovered  everything  
he  had  ever  wanted
during  his  first  week  behind  the  microphone.  He  hadn't  been  very  
good  at  first;  he  had  been
too  excited  to be good. But he had understood his potential not to be just 
good at the job but
great  at  it,  and  just  that  knowledge  had  been  enough  to  put  him  
over  the  moon  on  a  cloud  of
euphoria.  At  the  same  time  he  had  begun  to  understand  the  great  
principle  that  moved  the
universe,  at  least  that  part  of  the  universe  which  had  to  do  with  
careers  and  success:  you
found  the  crazy  guy  who  was  running  around  inside  of  you,  fucking  
up  your  life.  You  chased
him  into  a  corner  and  grabbed  him.  But  you  didn't  kill  him.  Oh  no. 
 Killing  was  too  good  for
the likes of  that  little  bastard.  You  put  a  harness  over his head and 
then started plowing. The
crazy  guy  worked  like  a  demon  once  you  had  him  in  the  traces.  And  
he  supplied  you  with  a
few chucks from time to tune. That was really all there was. And that was 
enough.

He  had  been  funny,  all  right,  a  laugh  a  minute,  but  in  the  end  he 
 had  outgrown  the

nightmares  that  were  on  the  dark  side  of  all  those  laughs.  Or  he  
thought  he  had.  Until  today,
when the word  grownup  suddenly stopped making sense to his own ears. And now 
here was
something  else  to  cope  with,  or  at  least  think  about;  here  was  the  
huge  and  totally  idiotic
statue   of Paul Bunyan in front of City Center.


I must be the exception that proves the rule, Big Bill.
Are you sure there was nothing, Richie? Nothing at all?
Up by City Center . . . I thought I saw . . .

Sharp  pain  needled  at  his  eyes  for  the  second  time  that  day  and  he 
 clutched  at  them,  a
startled  moan  coming  out  of  him.  Then  it  was  gone  again,  as  quickly 
 as  it  had  come.  But  he
had  also  smelled  something,  hadn't  he?  Something  that  wasn't  really  
there,  but  something  that
had been there, something that made him think of

(I'm right here with you Richie hold my hand can you catch hold)

Mike  Hanlon.  It  was  smoke  that  had  made  his  eyes  sting  and  water.  
Twenty-seven years
ago  they  had  breathed  that  smoke;  in  the  end  there  had  just  been  
Mike  and  himself  left  and
they had seen —

But it was gone.

He  took  a  step  closer  to  the  plastic  Paul  Bunyan  statue,  as  amazed  
by  its  cheerful  vulgarity
now  as  he  had  been  overwhelmed  by  its  size  as  a  child.  The  
mythical  Paul  stood  twenty  feet
high,  and  the  base  added  another  six  feet.  He  stood  smiling  down  at 
 the  car  and  pedestrian
traffic  on  Outer  Canal  Street  from  the  edge  of  the  City  Center  
lawn.  City  Center  had  been
erected  in  the  years  1954-55  for  a  minor-league  basketball  team  that  
had  never  materialized.
The Derry City Council had voted money for the statue a year later, in 1956. I 
had been hotly
debated,  both  in  the  council's  public  meetings  and  in  the  
letters-to-the-editor  columns  of the
Derry  News.  Many  thought  it  would  be  a perfectly  lovely  statue,  
certain  to  become  a  tourist
attraction  of  note.  There  were  others  who  found  the  idea  of  a  
plastic  Paul  Bunyan  horrible,
garish,  and  unbelievably  gauche.  The  art  teacher  at  Derry  High  
School, Richie remembered,
had  written  a  letter  to  the  News  saying  that  if  such  a  monstrosity  
were  actually  to  be  erected
in  Derry,  she  would  blow  it  up.  Grinning,  Richie  wondered  if  that  
babe's  contract  had  been
renewed.

The  controversy  —  which  Richie  recognized  now  as  an  utterly  typical  
big-town/small-city
tempest   in   a   teapot  —   had   raged   for   six   months,   and   of   
course   it   had   been   entirely
meaningless;  the  statue  had  been  purchased,  and  even  if  the  City  
Council  had  done  something
as   aberrant  (especially  for  New  England)  as  deciding  not  to  use  an  
item  for  which  money  had
been  paid,  where  in  God's  name  could  it  have  been  stored?  Then  the  
statue,  not  really
sculpted  at  all  but  simply  cast  in  some  Ohio  plastics  plant,  had  
been  set  in  place,  still
shrouded in a  whack of canvas big enough to serve as a clippership sail. It 
had been unveiled
on  May  13th,  1957,  which  was  the  incorporated  township's  
one-hundred-and-fiftieth birthday.
One  faction  gave  voice  to  predictable  moans  of  outrage;  the  other  to 
 equally  predictable
moans of rapture.

When  Paul  was  revealed  that  day  he  was  wearing  his  bib  overalls  and 
 a  red-and-white-
checked  shirt.  His  beard  was  splendidly  black,  splendidly  full,  
splendidly  lumber  jack-y.  A
plastic  axe,  surely  the  Godzilla  of  all  plastic  axes,  was  slung  over 
 one  shoulder,  and  he
grinned  unceasingly  at  the  northern  skies,  which  on  the  day  of  the  
unveiling  had  been  as  blue
as     the  skin  of  Paul's  reputed  companion  (Babe  was  not  present  at  
the  unveiling,  however;  the
cost estimate of adding a blue ox to the tableau had been prohibitive).

The  children  who  attended  the  ceremonies  (there  were  hundreds  of  
them,  and  ten-year-old

Richie  Tozier,  in  the  company  of  his  dad,  had  been  among  them)  were 
 totally  and  uncritically
delighted  by  the  plastic  giant.  Parents  boosted  toddlers  up  onto  the  
square  pedestal  on  which
Paul  stood,  took  photos,  and  then  watched  with  mixed  apprehension  and 
 amusement  as  the
kids  climbed  and  crawled,  laughing,  over  Paul's  huge  black  boots  
(correction:  huge  black
plastic boots).

It  had  been  March  of  the  following  year  when  Richie,  exhausted  and  
terrified,  had  finished
up  on  one  of  the  benches  in  front  of  the  statue  after  eluding  —  
by  the  barest  of  margins  —
Messrs.  Bowers,  Criss,  and  Huggins  in  a  chase  that  had  led  from  
Derry  Elementary  School


across  most  of  the  downtown  area.  He  had  finally  ditched  them  in  
the  toy  department  of
Freese's Department Store.

The   Derry   branch   of   Freese's   was   a   poor   thing   compared   with 
  the   grand   downtown
department  store  in  Bangor,  but  Richie  had  been  far  past  caring  
about  such  things   — by then
it  was  a  case  of  any  port  in  a  storm.  Henry  Bowers  had  been  right 
 behind  him  and  by  then
Richie  had  been  flagging  badly.  He  had  dodged  into  the  mouth  of  the 
 department  store's
revolving  door  as  a  last  resort.  Henry,  who  apparently  didn't  
understand  the  physics  of  such
devices,  had  nearly  lost  the  tips  of  his  fingers  trying  to  grab  
Richie  as  Richie  trundled  around
and into the store.

Pelting  downstairs,  shirttail  flying  out  behind  him,  he  had  heard  the 
 revolving door give off
a  series  of  reports  almost  as  loud  as  TV  gunfire  and  understood  
that  Larry,  Moe,  and  Curly
were still after him. He was laughing as he went down the stairs to the 
basement level but that
was  only  a  nervous  tic;  he  was  as  full  of  terror as a rabbit caught 
in a wire snare. They really
meant to beat him up good this time (he had no idea that in another ten weeks 
or so he would
believe  the  three  of  them,  Henry  in  particular,  capable  of  anything  
short  of  murder,  and  he
surely  would  have  whitened  with  shock  if  he  had  known  of  the  
apocalyptic  rockfight  in  July,
when  even  that  last  qualification  would  disappear  from  his  mind).  And 
 the  whole  thing  had
been so utterly, typically stupid.

Richie  and  the  other  boys  in  his  fifth-grade  class  had  been  filing  
into  the  gym.  A  sixth-
grade  class,  Henry  hulking  among  them  like  an  ox  among  cows,  had  
been  coming  out.
Although   he   was   still   in   the   fifth   grade,   Henry   went   to   
gym   with   the   older   boys.   The
overhead  pipes  had  been  dripping  again  and  Mr  Fazio  hadn't  yet  
gotten  around  to  putting  up
his  CAUTION!  WET   FLOOR!  sign  on  its  little  easel.  Henry  had  slipped 
 in  a  puddle  and  had
landed on his keister.

Before he could stop it Richie's traitor mouth had bugled: 'Way to go, 
banana-heels!'

There  had  been  an  explosion  of  laughter  from  both  Henry's  classmates  
and  Richie's,  but
there  had  been  no  laughter  on  Henry's  face  as  he  picked  himself  up  
—  only  a  dull  flush  the
color of freshly fired brick.

'Later for you, four-eyes,' he said, and walked on.

The  laughter died at once. The boys in the hall looked at Richie as one 
already dead. Henry
did  not  pause  to  check  reactions;  he  simply  walked  off,  head  down,  
elbows  red  from  catching
the  fall,  a  large  wet  place  on  the  seat  of  his  pants.  Looking  at  
that  wet  spot, Richie felt his
suicidally  witty  mouth  drop  open  again  .  .  .  but  this  time  he  
snapped  it  shut  again,  so  fast  he
almost amputated the tip of his tongue with the falling gate of his teeth.

Well,  but  he'll  forget,  he told himself uneasily as he changed up for gym.  
Sure he will. Ole
Hank  just  hasn't  got  that  many  memory  circuits  working.  Every  time  
he  takes  a  shit  he
probably has to look up the directions in the instruction booklet, ha-ha.

Ha-ha.

'You're  dead,  Trashmouth,'  Vince  'Boogers'  Taliendo  told  him,  pulling  
his  jock  up  over  a
dork  roughly  the  size  and  shape  of  an  anemic  peanut.  He  said  it  
with  a  certain  sad  respect.
'Don't worry, though. I'll bring flowers.'

'Cut  off  your  ears  and  bring  cauliflowers,'  Richie  had  come  back  
smartly,  and  everyone

laughed,  even  ole  'Boogers'  Taliendo  laughed,  why  not,  they  could  all 
 afford  to  laugh.  What,
me  worry?  They  would  all  be  home  watching  Jimmy  Dodd  and  the  
Mouseketeers  on  the
Mickey  Mouse  Club   or  Frankie  Lymon  singing  'I'm  Not  a  Juvenile  
Delinquent' on  American
Bandstand  while  Richie  went  shagging  ass  through  ladies'  lingerie  and  
housewares  on  his
way     to the toy department with sweat pouring down his back into the crack 
of his ass and his
terrified  balls  strung  up  so  high  they  felt  like  they  might   be  
hung  over  his  bellybutton.  Sure,
they could laugh. Har-de-har-har-har.


Henry  hadn't  forgotten.  Richie  had  left  by  the  door  at  the  
kindergarten  end  of  the  school
building  just  in  case,  but  Henry  had  stuck  Belch  Huggins  there,  also 
 just  in  case.  Har-de-har-
har-har.

Richie  saw  Belch  first  or  there  would  have  been  no  contest  at  all.  
Belch  was  looking  out
toward  Derry  Park,  holding  an  unlit  cigarette  in  one  hand  and  
dreamily  picking  the  seat  of  his
chinos  out  of  his  ass  with  the  other.  Heart  pounding  hard,  Richie  
had  walked  quietly  across
the  playground  and  was  most  of  the  way  down  Charter  Street  before  
Belch  turned  his  head
and saw him. He yelled for Henry and Victor, and since then the chase had been 
on.

When   Richie   reached   the   toy   department   it  had  been  utterly,  
horribly  deserted.  There

wasn't  even  a  sales  clerk  hanging  out  —  a  welcome  adult  to  put  a  
stop  to  things  before  they
got  entirely  out  of  hand.  He  could  hear  the  three  dinosaurs  of  the  
apocalypse  closing  in  now.
And  he  simply  couldn't  run  anymore.  Each  breath  produced  a  deep  
hurting  stitch  in  his  left
side.

His  eye  fixed  on  a  door  which  read  EMERGENCY  EXIT   ONLY\  ALARM  WILL 
 SOUND!  Hope
kindled in his chest.

Richie  ran  down  an  aisle  crammed  with  Donald  Duck  jack-in-the-boxes,  
United  States
Army  tanks  made  in  Japan,  Lone  Ranger  cap  pistols,  wind-up  robots.  
He  reached  the  door
and  slammed  the  push-bar  as  hard  as  he  could.  The  door  opened,  
letting  in  cool  mid -March
air.  The  alarm  went  off  with  a  strident  bray.  Richie  immediately  
doubled  back and dropped to
his  hands  and  knees  in  the  next  aisle  over.  He  was  down  before  the 
 door  could  settle  closed
again.

Henry,  Belch,  and  Victor  thundered  into  the  toy  department  just  as  
the  door  clicked  shut

and the alarm cut off. They raced for it, Henry in the lead, his face set and 
intent.

A sales clerk finally appeared, coming on the run. He wore a blue nylon duster 
over a plaid
sportcoat  of  excruciating  ugliness.  The  rims  of  his  spectacles  were  
as  pink  as  the  eyes  of  a
white  rabbit.  Richie  thought  he  looked  like  Wally  Cox  in  his  Mr  
Peepers  role,  and  he  had  to
slam  his  traitor  mouth  into  the  fat  part  of  his  forearm  to  keep  
from  screaming  out  gales  of
exhausted laughter.

'You  boys!'  Mr  Peepers  exclaimed.  'You  boys  can't  go  out  there!  
That's  an  emergency exit!

You! Hey! You boys!'

Victor  glanced  at  him  a  little  nervously,  but  Henry  and  Belch  never  
turned  from  their
course  and  Victor  followed  them.  The  alarm  brayed  again,  longer  this  
time  as  they  charged
into  the  alley.  Before  it  stopped  clanging  Richie  was  on  his  feet  
and  trotting  back  toward
ladies' lingerie.

'You boys will be barred from the store!' the clerk yelled after him.

Looking  back  over  his  shoulder  Richie  squealed  in  his  Granny  Grunt  
Voice,  'Did  anyone
ever tell you you look just  like Mr Peepers, young man?'

And  so  he  had  escaped.  And  so  he  had  finished  up  almost  a  mile  
from  Freese's,  in  front  of
City  Center  .  .  .  and,  he  devoutly  hoped,  out  of  harm's  way.  At  
least  for  the  time  being.  He
was  spent.  He  sat  down  on  a  bench  just to the left of the Paul Bunyan 
statue, wanting only a
little  peace  while  he  got  himself  back  together.  In  a  bit  he  would  
get  up  and  head  home,  but
for  now  it  felt  too  good  to  just  sit  here  in  the  afternoon  sun.  
The  day  had  opened  in  a  cold
drizzly gloom, but now you could believe spring might actually be on the way.

Farther  up  the  lawn  he  could  see  the  City  Center  marquee,  which  on  
that  March  day  bore
this message in large blue translucent letters:

HEY TEENS!

COMING MARCH 28TH

THE ARNIE "WOO-WOO' GINSBERG ROCK AND ROLL SHOW!
JERRY LEE LEWIS


THE PENGUINS

FRANKIE LYMON AND THE TEENAGERS

GENE VINCENT AND THE BLUE CAPS
FREDDY 'BOOM -BOOM ' CANNON

AN EVENING OF WHOLESOME ENTERTAINMENT!!

That  was  a  show  Richie  really  wanted  to  see,  but  he  knew  there  
wasn't  a  chance.  His
mother's  idea  of  wholesome  entertainment  did  not  include  Jerry  Lee  
Lewis  telling  the  young
people  of  America  we  got  chicken  in  the  barn,  whose  barn,  what  
barn,  my  barn.  Nor,  for  that
matter,  did  it  include  Freddy  Cannon,  whose  Tallahassee  lassie  had  a  
hi-fi  chassis.  She  was
willing  to  admit  that  she  had  done  her  share  of  screaming  for  Frank 
 Sinatra  (whom  she  now
called  Frankie  the  Snot)  as  a  bobby-soxer,  but,  like  Bill  Denbrough's 
 mother,  she  was  death
on  rock  and  roll.  Chuck  Berry  terrified  her,  and  she  declared  that  
Richard  Penniman,  better
known  to  his  teen  and  subteen  constituency  as  Little  Richard,  made  
her  want  to  'barf  like  a
chicken.'

This was a phrase for which Richie had never asked a translation.

His dad was neutral on  the  subject  of  rock  and  roll  and  could  perhaps  
have  been  swayed,
but  Richie  knew  in  his  heart  that  his  mother's  wishes  would  rule  on 
 this  subject  —  until  he
was  sixteen  or  seventeen,  anyway  —  and  by  then,  his  mother  was  
firmly  convinced,  the
country's rock and roll mania would have passed.

Richie  thought  Danny  and  the  Juniors  were  more  right  on  that  subject 
 than  his  mom  —
rock  and  roll  would  never  die.  He  himself  loved  it,  although  his  
sources  were  really  only  two

—  American  Bandstand  on  Channel  7  in  the  afternoon  and  WMEX  out  of  
Boston  at  night,
when  the  air  had  thinned  and  the  hoarse  enthusiastic  voice  of  Arnie  
Ginsberg  came  wavering
in  and  out  like  the  voice  of  a  ghost  called  up  at  a  seance.  The  
beat  did  more  than  make  him
happy.  It  made  him  feel  bigger, stronger, more  there. When Frankie Ford 
sang 'Sea Cruise' or
Eddie  Cochran  sang  'Summertime  Blues,'  Richie  was  actually  transported  
with  joy.  There
was  power  in  that  music,  a  power  which  seemed  to  most  rightfully  
belong  to  all  the  skinny
kids,  fat  kids,  ugly  kids,  shy  kids  —  the  world's  losers,  in  short. 
 In  it  he  felt  a  mad  hilarious
voltage  which  had  the  power  to  both  kill  and  exalt.  He  idolized  
Fats  Domino  (who  made  even
Ben  Hanscom  look  sum  and  trim)  and  Buddy  Holly,  who,  like  Richie,  
wore  glasses,  and
Screaming  Jay  Hawkins,  who  popped  out  of  a  coffin  at  his  concerts  
(or  so Richie had been
told),  and the Dovells, who danced as good as black guys.

Well, almost.

He  would  have  his  rock  and  roll  someday  if  he  wanted  it  — he was 
confident it would  still
be  there  for  him  when  his  mother  finally  gave  in  and  let  him  have  
it  —  but that would not be
on March 28th, 1958 . . . or in 1959 . . . or . . .

His eyes had drifted away from the marquee and then . . . well . . . then he 
must have fallen
asleep.  It  was  the  only  explanation  that  made  sense.  What  had  
happened  next  could  only
happen in dreams.

And now here he was again a Richie Tozier who had finally gotten all the rock 
and roll he
had  ever  wanted  .  .  .  and  who  had  found,  happily,  that  it  still 
wasn't enough. His eyes went to
the  marquee  in  front  of  City  Center  and  saw  that,  with  a  hideous  
kind  of  serendipity,  those
same blue letters spelled out:

JUNE 14TH

HEAVY METAL MANIA!
JUDAS PRIEST

IRON MAIDEN

BUY YOUR TICKETS HERE OR AT ANY TICKETRON OUTLET


Somewhere along the way they dropped the wholesome entertainment line,  thought 
Richie,

but as far as I can tell that's just about the only difference,

And  heard  Danny  and  the  Juniors,  dim  and  distant,  like  voices  heard  
down  a  long  corridor
coming  out  of  a  cheap  radio:  Rock  and  roll  will  never  die,  I'll  
dig  it  to  the  end  .  .  .  It'll  go
down in history, just you watch my friend . . .

Richie  looked  back  at  Paul  Bunyan,  patron  saint  of  Derry  —  Derry, 
which had come into
being,  according  to  the  stories,  because  this  was  where  the  logs  
fetched  up  when  they  came
downriver.   There   had   been   a   time   when,   in   the   spring,   both  
 the   Penobscot   and   the
Kenduskeag  would  have  been  solid  logs  from  one  side  to  the  other,  
their  black  bark  hides
glistening in the  spring  sun.  A  fellow  who  was  fast  on  his  feet  
could  walk  from  Wally's  Spa
in  Hell's  Half-Acre  over  to  Ramper's  in  Brewster  (Ramper's  was  a  
tavern  of  such  horrible
repute  that  it  was  commonly  called  the  Bucket  of  Blood)  without  
getting  his  boots  wet  over
the  third  crossing  of  his  rawhide  laces.  Or  so  it  had  been  storied  
in  Richie's  youth,  and  he
supposed there was a bit of Paul Bunyan in all such stories.

Old Paul, he thought, looking up at the plastic statue.  What you been doing 
since I've been
gone? Made any new riverbeds coming home tired and dragging your axe behind 
you? Made
any new lakes on account of wanting a bathtub big enough so you could sit in 
water up to
your neck? Scared any more little kids the way you scared me that day?

Ah,  and  suddenly  he  remembered  it  all,  the  way  you  will  sometimes  
suddenly  remember  a
word which has been dancing on the tip of your tongue.

There  he  had  been,  sitting  in  that  mellow  March  sunshine,  drowsing  a 
 little,  thinking  about

going  home  and  catching  the  last  half  hour  of  Bandstand,  and  
suddenly  there  had  been  a
warm  swash  of  air  into  his  face.  It  blew  his  hair  back  from  his  
forehead.  He  looked  up  and
Paul  Bunyan's  huge  plastic  face  had been  right  in  front  of  his,  
bigger  than  a  face  on  a  movie
screen,   filling   everything.  The  rush  of  air  had  been  caused  by  
Paul  bending  down  .  .  .
although   he   did   not   precisely   look   like   Paul   anymore.   The   
forehead   was   now   low   and
beetling;  tufts  of  wiry  hair  poked  from  a  nose  as  red  as  the  nose  
of  a  long-time drunkard; his
eyes were bloodshot and one had a slight cast to it.

The  axe  was  no  longer  on  his  shoulder.  Paul  was  leaning  on  its  
haft,  and  the  blunt  end  of
its  head  had  crushed  a  trench  in  the  concrete  of  the  sidewalk.  He  
was  still  grinning,  but  there
was  nothing  cheery  about  it  now.  From  between  gigantic  yellow  teeth  
there  drifted  a  smell
like small animals rotting in hot underbrush.

'I'm  going  to  eat  you  up,'  the  giant  had  said  in  a  low  rumbling  
voice.  It  was  the  sound  of
boulders  rocking  against  each  other  during  an  earthquake.  'Unless  you  
give  me  back  my  hen
and my harp and my bags of gold, I'm going to eat you right the fuck up!'

The  breath  of  these  words  made  Richie's  shirt  flutter  and  flap  like  
a  sail  in  a  hurricane.  He
shrank   back   against   the   bench,   eyes   bugging,   hair   standing   
out   to   all   sides   like   quills,
wrapped in a pocket of carrion-stink.

The  giant  began  to  laugh.  It  settled  its  hands  on  the  haft  of  its  
axe  the  way  Ted  Williams
might  have  laid  hold  of  his  favorite  baseball  bat  (or  ash-handle,  if 
 you  prefer),  and  pulled  it
out  of  the  hole  it  had  made  in  the  sidewalk.  The  axe  began  to  
rise  into  the  air.  It  made  a  low
lethal  rushing  sound.  Richie  suddenly  understood  that  the  giant  meant  
to  split  him  right  down
the middle.

But  he  felt  that  he  could  not move;  a  logy  sort  of  apathy  had  
stolen  over  him.  What  did  it
matter?  He  was  dozing,  having  a  dream.  Any  moment  now  some  driver  
would  blow  his  horn
at a kid running across the street and he would wake up.

'That's  right,'  the  giant  had  rumbled,  'you'll wake up in  hell!'  And  
at  the  last  instant,  as  the
axe  slowed  to  its  apogee  and  balanced  there,  Richie  understood that 
this wasn't a dream at all

. . . and if it was, it was a dream that could kill.


Trying  to  scream  but  making  no  sound  at  all,  he  rolle d  off  the  
bench  and  onto  the  raked
gravel plot which surrounded what had been a statue and was now only a base 
with two huge
steel  bolts  sticking  out  of  it  where  the  feet  had  been.  The  sound  
of  the  descending  axe  filled
the   world   with   its   pressing   insistent   whisper;   the   giant's   
grin   had   become   a   murderer's
grimace.  Its  lips  had  pulled  back  so  far  from  its  teeth  that  its  
plastic  red  gums,  hideously  red,
gleamed.

The  blade  of  the  axe  struck  the  bench  where  Richie  had  been  only  
an  instant  before.  The
edge  was  so  sharp  that  there  was  almost  no  sound  at  all,  but  the  
bench  was  sheared  instantly
in  two.  The  halves  sagged  away  from  each  other,  the  wood  inside  the 
 green-painted  skin  a
bright and somehow sickening white.

Richie  was  on  his  back.  Still  trying  to  scream,  he  pushed  himself  
with  his  heels.  Gravel
went  down  the  collar  of  his  shirt,  down  the  back  of  his  pants.  And 
 there  was  Paul,  towering
above  him,  looking  down  at  him  with  eyes  the   size  of  manhole  
covers;  there  was  Paul,
looking down at one small boy cowering on the gravel.

The giant took a step toward him. Richie felt the ground shudder when the black 
boot came
down. Gravel spumed up in a cloud.

Richie  rolled  over  onto  his  stomach  and  staggered  to  his  feet.  His  
legs  were  already  trying
to  run  before  he  was  balanced,  and  as  a  result  he  fell  flat  on  
his  belly  again.  He  heard  the
wind  whoof  out  of  his  lungs.  His  hair  fell  in  his  eyes.  He  could  
see  the  traffic  going  back  and
forth  on  Canal  and  Main  Streets  as  it  did  every  day,  as  if  nothing 
 was  happening, as if no one
in  any  of  those  cars  could  see  or  care  that  Paul  Bunyan  had  come  
to  life  and  stepped  down
from  its  pedestal  in  order  to  commit  murder  with  an  axe  roughly  the 
 size  of  a  deluxe  motor
home.

The sunshine was blotted out. Richie lay in a patch of shade that looked like a 
man.

He scrambled to his knees, almost fell over sideways, managed to get to his 
feet, and ran as
fast  as  he  could  —  he  ran  with  his  knees  popping  almost  all  the  
way  up  to  his  chest  and  his
elbows   pistoning.   Behind  him  he  could  hear  that  awful  persistent  
whisper  building  again,  a
sound  that  seemed  to  be  not  really  sound  at  all  but  pressure  on  
the  skin  and  eardrums:
Swiiipppppp! —

The  earth  shook.  Richie's  upper  and  lower  teeth  rattled  against  each  
other  like  china plates
in  an  earthquake.  He  did  not  have  to  look  to  know  that  Paul's  axe  
had  buried  itself  haft-deep
in the sidewalk inches behind his feet.

Madly, in his mind, he heard the Dovells:  Oh the kids in Bristol are sharp as 
a pistol When
they do the Bristol Stomp . . .

He passed out of the giant's shadow into sunlight again, and as he did he began 
to laugh  —
the  same  exhausted  laughter  that  had  come  from  him  when  he  bolted  
downstairs  in  Freese's.
Panting, that hot stitch in his side again, he had at last risked a glance back 
over his shoulder.

There was the statue of Paul Bunyan, standing on its pedestal where it always 
stood, axe on
its  shoulder,  head  cocked  toward  the  sky,  lips  parted  in  the  eternal 
 optimistic  grin  of  the
myth-hero.  The  bench  which  had  been  sheared  in  two  was  whole  and  
intact,  thank  you  very
much.   The   gravel   where   Tall   Paul   (He's-a   my   all,  Annette  
Funicello  sang  maniacally  in
Richie's  head)  had  planted  his  huge  foot  was  raked  and  immaculate  
except  for  the  scuffed
spot where Richie had fallen off while he was

(getting away from the giant)

dreaming.  There  was  no  footprint,  no  axe-slash  in  the  concrete.  There 
 was  nothing  here  but
a  boy  who  had  been  chased  by  other  boys,  bigger  boys,  and  so  had  
had  himself  a  very  small
(but  ve ry  potent)  dream  about  a  homicidal  Colossus  .  .  .  the  Giant 
 Economy-Size  Henry
Bowers, if you pleased.

'Shit,' Richie said in a tiny wavering voice, and then uttered an uncertain 
laugh.


He  stood  there  awhile  longer,  waiting  to  see  if  the  statue  would  
move  again  —  perhaps
wink,  perhaps  shift  its  axe  from  one  shoulder  to  the  other,  perhaps  
come  down  and  have  at
him again. But of course none of those things happened.

Of course.

What, me worry? Har-de-har-har-har.
A doze. A dream. No more than that.

But,  as  Abraham  Lincoln  or  Socrates  or  someone  like  that  had  once  
observed,  enough  was
enough. It was time to go home and cool out; to make like Kookie on 77 Sunset 
Strip  and just
lay chilly.

And  although  it  would  have  been  quicker  to  cut  through  the  City  
Center  grounds,  he
decided  not  to.  He  didn't  want  to  get  close  to  that  statue  again.  
So  he  had  gone  the  long  way
around and by that evening he had nearly forgotten the incident.

Until now.

Here sits a man,  he thought, here sits a man dressed in a mossy-green 
sportcoat purchased
at one of the best shops on Rodeo Drive; here sits a man with Bass Weejuns on 
his feet and
Calvin  Klein  underwear  to  cover  his  ass;  here  sits  a  man  with  soft  
contact  lenses  resting
easily  on  his  eyes;  here  sits  a  man  remembering  the  dream  of  a  boy 
 who  thought  an  Ivy
League  shin  with  a  fruit-loop on the back and a pair of Snap Jack shoes was 
the height of
fashion; here sits a grownup looking at the same old statue, and hey, Paul, 
Tall Paul, I'm
here  to say you're the same in every way, you ain't aged a motherfucking day.

The old explanation still rang true in his mind: a dream.

He  supposed  he  could  believe  in  monsters  if  he  had  to;  monsters  
were  no  big  deal.  Hadn't
he  sat  in  radio  studios  at  one  time  or  another  reading  news  copy  
about  such  fellows  as  Idi
Amin  Dada  and  Jim  Jones  and  that  guy  who  had  blown  away  all  those  
folks  in  a  McDonald's
just  down  the  road  apiece?  Shitfire  and  save  matches,  monsters  were  
cheap!  Who  needed  a
five-buck  movie  ticket  when  you  could  read  about  them  in  the  paper  
for  thirty-five cents or
hear  about  them  on  the  radio  for  free?  And  he  supposed  if  he  could 
 believe  in  the  Jim  Jones
variety,  he  could  believe  in  Mike  Hanlon's  version,  at  least  for  
awhile;  It  even  had  Its  own
sorry  charm,  because  It  came  from  Outside  and  no  one  had  to  claim  
responsibility  for  It.  He
could believe in a monster that had as many faces as there are rubber masks in 
a novelty shop
(if  you're  gonna  have  one,  you  might  as  well  have  a  pack  of  em,  
he  thought,  cheaper  by  the
dozen,  right,  gang?),  at  least  for  the  sake  of  argument  .  .  .  but  
a  thirty-foot-high plastic statue
that stepped off its pedestal and then tried to carve you up with its plastic 
axe? That was just a
little  too  ripe.  As  Abraham  Lincoln  or  Socrates  or  someone  had  also  
said, I'll eat fish and I'll
eat meat, but there is some shit I will not eat. It just wasn't —

That  sharp  needling  pain  struck  his  eyes  again,  without  warning  
jerking  a  dismayed  cry

from  him.  This  was  the  worst  yet,  going  deeper  and  lasting  longer,  
scaring  the  bejesus  out  of
him.  He  clapped  his  hands  to  his  eyes  and  then  groped  instinctively  
for  the  bottom  lids  with
his forefingers, meaning to pop his contacts out.  It's maybe some kind of 
infection, he thought
dimly. But Jesus it hurts!

He  pulled  the  lids  down  and  was  ready  to  give  the  single  practiced  
blink  that  would  send
them  tumbling  out  (and  he  would  spend  the  next  fifteen  minutes  
grovelling  myopically  for
them  in  the  gravel  surrounding  the  bench  but  Jesus  God  who  gave  a 
shit, right now it felt like
there were  nails  in  his  eyes),  when  the  pain  disappeared.  It  did  not 
 dwindle;  it  just  went.  One
moment there, the next moment gone. His eyes teared briefly and then stopped.

He  lowered  his  hands  slowly,  his  heart  running fast in his chest, ready 
to blink them out the
instant  the  pain  started  again.  It  didn't.  And  suddenly  he  found  
himself  thinking  about  the
only  horror  movie  that  had  ever  really  scared  him  as  a  kid,  
possibly  because  he  had  taken  so
much  shit  about  his  glasses  and  had  spent  so  much  time  thinking  
about  his  eyes.  That  movie
had been  The Crawling Eye,  with Forrest Tucker. Not very good. The other kids 
had laughed


themselves  into  hysterics  over  it,  but  Richie  had  not  laughed.  Richie 
 had  been  rendered  cold
and   white  and  dumb,  for  once  with  not  a  single  Voice  to  command,  
as  that  gelatinous
tentacled  eye  came  out  of  the  manufactured  fog  of  some  English  movie 
 set,  waving  its  fibrous
tentacles  in  front  of  it.  The  sight  of  that  eye  had  been  very  bad, 
 the  embodiment  of  a hundred
not-quite-realized  fears  and  disquiets.  On  some  night  not  long  after,  
he  had  dreamed  of
looking  at  himself  in  a  mirror  and  bringing  a  large  pin  up  and  
sticking  it  slowly  into  the  black
iris  of  his  eye  and  feeling  a  numb,  watery  springiness  as  the  
bottom of his eye filled up with
blood. He remembered  — now he remembered  — waking up and discovering that he 
had wet
the bed. The best indicator of how gruesome that dream had been was that his 
primary feeling
had  been  not  shame  at  his  nocturnal  indiscretion  but  relief;  he  had  
embraced  the  warm  wet
patch with his body and blessed the reality of his sight.

'Fuck  this,'  Richie  Tozier  said  in  a  low  voice  that  was  not  quite  
steady,  and  started  to  get
up.

He  would  go  back  to  the  Derry  Town  House  and  take a nap. If this was 
Memory Lane, he

preferred  the  LA.  Freeway  at  rush-hour.  The  pain  in  his  eyes  was  
probably  no  more  than  a
signal   of   exhaustion   and   jet-lag,  plus  the  stress  of  meeting  the  
past  all  at  once,  in  one
afternoon.  Enough  shocks;  enough  exploring.  He  didn't  like  the  way  
his  mind  was  skittering
from  one  subject  to  the  next.  What  was  that  Peter  Gabriel  tune?  
'Shock  the  Monkey.'  Well,
this  monkey  had  been  shocked  enough.  It  was  time  to  catch  some  z's  
and  maybe  gain  a  little
perspective.

As  he  rose  his  eyes  went  to  the  marquee  in  front  of  City  Center  
again.  All  at  once  the
strength ran out of his legs and he sat down again. Hard.

RICHIE TOZIER MAN OF 1000 VOICES
RETURNS TO DERRY LAND OF 1000 DANCES

IN HONOUR OF TRASHMOUTH'S RETURN CITY CENTER PROUDLY PRESENTS
THE RICHIE TOZIER 'ALL-DEAD' ROCK SHOW

BUDDY HOLLY    RICHIE VALENS   THE BIG BOPPER
FRANKIE LYMON    GENE VINCENT   MARVIN GAYE

HOUSE BAND

JIMI HENDRIX    LEAD GUITAR
JOHN LENNON    RHYTHM GUITAR
PHIL LINOTT    BASS GUITAR
KEITH MOON    DRUMS

SPECIAL GUEST VOCLAIST    JIM MORRISON

WELCOME HOME RICHIE!

YOU'RE DEAD TOO!

He  felt  as  if  someone  had  whopped  all  the  breath  out  of  him  .  .  
.  and  then  he  heard  that
sound  again,  that  sound  that  was  half  pressure  on  the  skin  and  
eardrums,  that keen homicidal
whispering  rush  —  Swiipppp!  He  rolled  off  the  bench  onto  the  gravel, 
 thinking  So  this  is
what they mean by déjà vu, now you know, you'll never have to ask anybody again 
—

He  hit  on  his  shoulder  and  rolled,  looking  up  at  the  Paul  Bunyan 
statue  —  only  it  was  no
longer  Paul  Bunyan.  The  clown  stood  there  instead,  resplendent  and  
evident,  fantastic  in
plastic,   twenty   feet   of   Day-Glo  colors,  its  painted  face  
surmounting  a  cosmic  comic  ruff.
Orange  pompom  buttons  cast  in  plastic,  each  as  big as a volleyball, ran 
down the front of the


silvery suit. Instead of an axe it held a huge bunch of plastic balloons. 
Engraved on each were
two legends: IT'S STILL ROCK AND ROLL TO ME and RICHIE TOZIER 's 'ALL-DEAD' 
ROCK SHOW.

He  scrambled  backward,  using  his  heels  and  his  palms.  Gravel  went  
down  the  back  of  his
pants.  He  heard  a  seam  tear  loose  in  die  underarm  of  his  Rodeo  
Drive  sportcoat.  He  rolled
over,  gamed  his  feet,  staggered,  looked  back.  The  down  looked  down  
at  him.  Its  eyes  rolled
wetly in their sockets.

'Did I give you a scare, m'man?' it rumbled.

And  Richie  heard  his  mouth  say,  quite  independently  of  his  frozen  
brain:  'Cheap  thrills  in
the back of my car, Bozo. That's all.'

The  clown  grinned  and  nodded  as  if  it  had  expected  no  more.  Red  
paint-bleeding lips
parted  to  show  teeth  like  fangs,  each  one  coming  to  a  razor  point.  
'I  could  have  you  now  if  I
wanted you now,' it said. 'But this is going to be too much fun.'

'Fun  for  me  too,'  Richie  heard  his  mouth  say.  'The  most  fun  of  all 
 when  we  come  to  take
your fucking head off, baby.'

The  clown's  grin  spread  wider  and  wider.  It  raised  one  hand,  clad  
in  a  white  glove,  and
Richie  felt  the  wind  of  the  movement  blow  the  hair  off  his  forehead 
 as  it  had  on  that  day
twenty-seven years ago. The clown's index finger popped out at him. It was as 
big as a beam.

Big  as  a  bea  — ,  Richie  thought,  and  then  the  pain  struck  again.  
It  drove  nisty  spikes  into
the soft jelly of his eyes. He screamed and clutched at his face.

'Before   removing   the  mote  from  thy  neighbor's  eye,  attend  the  beam  
in  thine  own,'  the
clown  intoned,  its  words  rumbling  and  vibrating,  and  Richie  was  again 
 enveloped  in  the
sweet stink of its carrion breath.

He  looked  up,  and  took  half  a  dozen  hurried  steps  backward.  The  
clown  was  bending
down, its gloved hands on its gaily pantalooned knees.

'Want  to  play  some  more,  Richie?  How  about  if  I  point  at  your  
pecker  and  give  you
prostate  cancer?  Or  I  could  point  at  your  head  and  give  you  a  good 
 old  brain  tumor  —
although  I'm  sure  some  people  would  say  that  would  only  be  adding  
to  what  was  already
there.  I  can  point  at  your  mouth  and  your  stupid  flapping  tongue  
will  turn  into  so  much
running pus. I can do it, Richie. Want to see?'

Its  eyes  were  widening,  widening,  and  in  those  black  pupils,  each  as 
 big  as  a  softball,
Richie  saw  the  mad  darkness  that  must  exist  over  the  rim  of  the  
universe;  he  saw  a  shitty
happiness  that  he  felt  would  drive  him  insane.  In  that  moment  he  
understood  It  could  do  any
of    these things and more.

And  yet  again  he  heard  his  mouth,  but  this  time  it  was  not  his  
voice,  or  any  of  his  created
Voices,  past  or  present;  it  was  a  Voice  he  had  never  heard  before.  
Later  he  would  tell  the
others,  hesitantly,  that  it  was  a  kind  of  Mr  Jiveass  Nigger  Voice,  
loud  and  proud,  self-
parodying   and   screechy.   'Git   off   man   case   you   big   ole   honky 
  clown!'   he   shouted,   and
suddenly he was laughing again. 'No shit an no shine, muhfuh! I got d'walk, I 
got d'talk, and I
got d'big boppin cock! I got d'  'time, I got d'  'mine, I'm a  man wit' a plan 
an if you doan  shit,
you goan git \ You hear me, you whiteface bunghole?'

Richie  thought  the  clown  recoiled,  but  he  did  not  stick  around  to  
find  out  for  sure.  He  ran,
elbows  pumping,  sportcoat  flying  out  in  wings  behind  him,  not  caring  
that  a  father  who  had
stopped  so  his  toddler  could  admire  Paul  was  now  staring  warily  at  
him,  as  if  he  had  gone
crazy. As a matter of fact, folks,  Richie thought, I feel  like I've gone 
crazy. Oh God do I ever.
And that had to have been the shiniest Grandmaster Flash imitation in history 
but somehow it
did the trick, somehow —

And  then  the  clown's  voice  thundered  after  him.  The  father  of  the  
little  boy  did  not  hear  it,
but  the  toddler's  face  suddenly  pinched  in  upon  itself  and  he  began  
to  wail.  The  dad picked
his  son  up  and  hugged  him,  bewildered.  Even  through  his  own  terror,  
Richie  observed  this
little  sideshow  closely.  The  voice  of  the  clown  was  perhaps  angrily  
gleeful,  perhaps  just


angry: 'We've  got  the  eye  down  here,  Richie  .  .  .  you  hear  me?  The 
 one that crawls. If you
don't want to fly, don't wanna say goodbye, you come on down under this here 
town and give
a great big hi to one great big eye! You come down and see it anytime. Just any 
old time you
like.  You  hear  me,  Richie?  Bring  your  yo-yo. Have Beverly wear a big 
full skin with four or
five petticoats underneath. Have her wear her husband's ring around her neck! 
Get Eddie to
wear his saddle-shoes! We'll play some bop, Richie! We'll play AAALLLL THE 
HITS!'

Reaching  the  sidewalk,  Richie  dared  to  look  back  over  his  shoulder,  
and  what  he  saw  was
in  no  way  comforting.  Paul  Bunyan  was  still  gone,  and  now  the  clown 
 was  gone,  too.  Where
they  had  stood  there  was  now  a  twenty-foot-high  plastic  statue  of  
Buddy  Holly.  He  was
wearing  a  button  on  one  of  the  narrow  lapels  of  his  plaid  
sportcoat.  RICHIE  TOZIER's  'ALL-
DEAD' ROCK SHOW, the button read.

One bow of Buddy's glasses had been mended with adhesive tape.

The  little  boy  was  still  crying  hysterically;  his  father  was  walking  
rapidly  back  toward
downtown with the weeping child in his arms. He gave Richie a wide berth.

Richie got walking

(feets don't fail me now)

trying not to think about

(we'll play AAALLLL THE HITS!)

what  had  just  happened.  All  he  wanted  to  think  about  was  the  
monster  jolt  of  Scotch  he
was going to have in the Derry Town House bar before he went up to take that 
nap.

The  thought  of  a  drink  —  just  your  ordinary  garden-variety drink  —  
made him feel a little
better.  He  looked  over  his  shoulder  one  more  time  and  the  fact  that 
 Paul  Bunyan  was  back,

grinning  at  the  sky,  plastic  axe  over  his  shoulder,  made  him  feel  
better  still.  Richie  began  to
walk  faster,  making  tracks,  putting  distance  between  himself  and  that  
statue.  He  had  even
begun  to  think  about  the  possibility  of  hallucinations  when  the  pain  
struck  his  eyes  again,
deep  and  agonizing,  causing  him  to  cry  out  hoarsely.  A  pretty  young  
girl  who  had  been
walking  ahead  of  him,  looking  dreamily  up  at  the  breaking  clouds,  
looked  back  at  him,
hesitated, then hurried over.

'Mister, are you all right?'

'It's  my  contacts,'  he  said  in  a  strained  voice.  'My  damned  contact  
le  —  oh  my  God  that
hurts!'

This  time  he  got  his  forefingers  up  so  quickly  he  almost  jabbed  
them  into  his  eyes.  He
pulled down the lower lids and thought,  I won't be able to blink them out, 
that's what's going
to happen, I won't be able to blink them out and it's just going to go on 
hurting and hurting
and  hurting  until  I  go  blind  go  blind  go  bl  —  But one blink did it 
as one blink always had.
The  sharp  and  denned  world,  where  colors  stayed  inside  the  lines  and 
 where  faces  that  you
saw  were  clear  and  obvious,  simply  fell  away.  Wide  bands  of  pastel  
fuzz  took  their  place.
And  although  he  and  the  high-school  girl,  who  was  both  helpful  and  
concerned,  searched the
paving of the sidewalk for almost fifteen minutes, neither could find even a 
single lens.

In the back of his head Richie seemed to hear the clown laughing.

5

Bill Denbrough Sees a Ghost

Bill  did  not  see  Pennywise  that  afternoon  —  but  he   did  see  a  
ghost.  A  real  ghost.  So Bill
believed then, and no subsequent event caused him to change his mind.

He  had  walked  up  Witcham  Street  and  paused  for  some  time  by  the  
drain  where  George
met  his  end  on  that  rainy  October  day  in  1957.  He  squatted  down and 
peered into the drain,


which  was  cut  into  the  stonework  of  the  curbing.  His  heart  was  
beating  hard,  but  he  looked
anyway.

'Come  out,  why  don't  you,'  he  said  in  a  low  voice,  and  he  had  the 
 not-quite-mad idea that
his  voice  was  floating  along  dark  and  dripping  passageways,  not  dying 
 out  but  continuing
onward  and  onward,  feeding  on  its  own  echoes,  bouncing  off  
moss-covered stone walls and
long-dead  machinery.  He  felt  it  float  over  still  and  sullen  waters  
and  perhaps  issue  softly  from
a hundred different drains in other parts of the city at the same time.

'Come out of there or we'll come in and g-get you.'

He  waited  nervily  for  a  response,  crouched  down  with  his  hands  
between  his  thighs  like  a
catcher between pitches. There was no response.

He was about to stand up when a shadow fell over him.

Bill  looked  up  sharply,  eagerly,  ready  for  anything  .  .  .  but  it  
was  only  a  little  kid,  maybe
ten,  maybe  eleven.  He  was  wearing  faded  Boy  Scout  shorts  which  
displayed  his  scabby  knees
to  good  advantage.  He  had  a  Freeze-Pop  in  one  hand  and  a  Fiberglas  
skateboard  which
looked  almost  as  battered  as  his  knees  in  the  other.  The  Freeze-Pop 
was a fluorescent orange.
The skateboard was a fluorescent green.

'You always talk into the sewers, mister?' the boy asked.
'Only in Derry,' Bill said.

They  looked  at  each  other  solemnly  for  a  moment  and  then  burst  into 
 laughter  at  the  same

time.

'I want to ask you a stupid queh-question,' Bill said.
'Okay,' the kid said.

'You ever h-hear anything down in one of these?'
The kid looked at Bill as though he had flipped out.
'O-Okay,' Bill said, 'forget I a-asked.'

He  started  to  walk  away  and  had  gotten  maybe  twelve  steps  — he was 
headed up the hill,
vaguely thinking he would take a look at the home place — when the kid called, 
'Mister?'

Bill  turned  back.  He  had  his  sportcoat  hooked  on  his  finger  and  
slung  over  his  shoulder.
His   collar   was   unbuttoned,   his   tie   loosened.   The   boy   was   
watching   him   carefully,   as   if
already  regretting  his  decision  to  speak  further.  Then  he  shrugged,  
as  if  saying  Oh  what  the
hell.

'Yeah.'

'Yeah?'

'Yeah.'

'What did it say?'

'I  don't  know.  It  talked  some  foreign  language.  I  heard  it  coming  
out  of  one  of  those
pumpin  stations  down  in  the  Barrens.  One  of  those  pumpin  stations,  
they  look  like  pipes
coming out of the ground — '

'I know what you mean. Was it a kid you heard?'

'At first it was a kid, then it sounded like a man.' The boy paused. 'I was 
some scared. I ran
home  and  told  my  father.  He  said  maybe  it  was  an  echo  or  
something,  coming  all  the  way
down the pipes from someone's house.'

'Do you believe that?'

The boy smiled charmingly. 'I read in my  Ripley's Believe It or Not book that 
there was this
guy,  he  got  music  from  his teeth.  Radio  music.  His  fillings  were,  
like,  little  radios.  I  guess  if  I
believed that, I could believe anything.'

'A-Ayuh,' Bill said. 'But did you believe it?'
The boy reluctantly shook his head.

'Did you ever hear those voices again?'


'Once when I was taking a bath,' the boy said. 'It was a girl's voice. Just 
crying. No words. I
was  ascared  to  pull  the  plug  when  I  was  done  because  I  thought  I  
might,  you  know,  drownd
her.'

Bill nodded again.

The  kid  was  looking  at  Bill  openly  now,  his  eyes  shining  and  
fascinated.  'You  know  about
those voices, mister?'

'I  heard  them,'  Bill  said.  'A  long,  long  time  ago.  Did  you  know  
any  of  the  k-kids that have
been murdered here, son?'

The  shine  went  out  of  the  kid's  eyes;  it  was  replaced  by  caution 
and disquiet. 'My dad says

I'm  not  supposed  to  talk  to  strangers.  He  says  anybody  could  be  
that  killer.'  He  took  an
additional  step  away  from  Bill,  moving  into  the  dappled  shade  of  an  
elm  tree  that  Bill  had
once   driven   his   bike   into   twenty-seven   years   ago.   He   had   
taken   a   spill   and   bent   his
handlebars.

'Not  me,  kid,'  he  said.  'I've  been  in  England  for  the  last  four  
months.  I  just  got  into  Derry
yesterday.'

'I still don't have to talk to you,' the kid replied.
'That's right,' Bill agreed. 'It's a f-f-free country.'

He paused and then said, 'I used to pal around with Johnny Feury some of the 
time. He was
a  good  kid.  I  cried,'  the  boy  finished  matter-of-factly, and slurped 
down the rest of his Freeze-
Pop.  As  an  afterthought  he  ran  out  his  tongue,  which  was  temporarily 
 bright  orange,  and
lapped off his arm.

'Keep  away  from  the  sewers  and  drains,'  Bill  said  quietly.  'Keep  
away  from  empty  places

and  deserted  places.  Stay  out  of  trainyards.  But  most  of  all,  stay  
away  from  the  sewers  and
the drains.'

The  shine  was  back  in  the  kid's  eyes,  and  he  said  nothing  for  a  
very  long  time.  Then:
'Mister? You want to hear something funny?'

'Sure.'

'You know that movie where the shark ate all the people up?'
'Everyone does. J-J- Jaws'

'Well,  I  got  this  friend,  you  know?  His  name's  Tommy  Vicananza,  and  
he's  not  that  bright.

Toys in the attic, you get what I mean?'
'Yeah.'

'He  thinks  he  saw  that  shark  in  the  Canal.  He  was  up  there  by  
himself  in  Bassey  Park  a
couple  of  weeks  ago,  and  he  said  he  seen  this  fin.  He  says  it  was 
 eight  or  nine  feet  tall.  Just
the  fin  was  that  tall,  you  get  me?  He  goes,  "That's  what  killed  
Johnny  and  the  other  kids.  It
was  Jaws,  I  know  because  I  saw  it."  So  I  go,  "That  Canal's  so  
polluted  nothing  could  live in
it,  not  even  a  minnow.  And  you  think  you  saw  Jaws  in  there.  You  
got  toys  in  the  attic,
Tommy."  Tommy  says  it  reared  right  out  of  the  water  like  it  did  at 
 the  end  of  that  movie  and
tried to bite him and he just got back in time. Pretty funny, huh, mister?'

'Pretty funny,' Bill agreed.
'Toys in the attic, right?'

Bill hesitated. 'Stay away from the Canal too, son. You follow?'

'You mean you believe it?'

Bill hesitated. He meant to shrug. Instead he nodded.

The  kid  let  out  his  breath  in  a  low,  hissing  rush.  He  hung  his  
head  as  if  ashamed.  'Yeah.

Sometimes I think I must have toys in the attic.'

'I  know  what  you  mean.'  Bill  walked  over  to  the  kid,  who  glanced  
up  at  him  solemnly  but
didn't shy away this time. 'You're killing your knees on that board, son.'

The  kid  glanced  down  at  his  scabby  knees  and  grinned.  'Yeah,  I  
guess  so.  I  bail  out

sometimes.'


'Can I try it?' Bill asked suddenly.

The  kid  looked  at  him,  gape-mouthed  at  first,  then  laughing.  'That'd  
be  funny,'  he  said. 'I
never saw a grownup on a skateboard.'

'I'll give you a quarter,' Bill said.

'My dad said — '

'Never  take  money  or  c-candy  from  strangers.  Good  advice.  I'll  still  
give  you  a  q-quarter.

What do you say? Just to the corner of Juh-Jackson Street.'

'Never   mind   the   quarter,'   the   kid   said.   He   burst   into   
laughter   again   —   a   gay   and
uncomplicated   sound.   A   fresh   sound.   'I   don't   need   your   
quarter.   I   got   two   bucks.   I'm
practically rich. I got to see this, though. Just don't blame me if you break 
something.'

'Don't worry,' Bill said. 'I'm insured.'

He  turned  one  of  the  skateboard's  scuffed  wheels  with  his  finger,  
liking  the  speedy  ease
with which it turned  —  it  sounded  like  there  was  about  a  million  
ball-bearings in there. It was
a  good  sound. It called up something very old in Bill's chest. Some desire as 
warm as want, as
lovely as love. He smiled.

'What do you think?' the kid asked.

'I think I'm g-gonna kill myself,' Bill said, and the kid laughed.

Bill  put  the  skateboard  on  the  sidewalk  and  put  one  foot  on  it.  He 
 rolled  it  back  and  forth
experimentally.  The  kid  watched.  In  his  mind  Bill  saw  himself  rolling 
 down  Witcham  Street
toward  Jackson  on  the  kid's  avocado-green  skateboard,  the  tails  of  
his  sport-coat  ballooning
out   behind   him,   his   bald   head   gleaming   in   the   sun,   his   
knees   bent   in   that   fragile   way
snowbunnies  bend  their  knees  their  first  day  on  the  slopes.  It  was  
a  posture  that  told  you  that
in  their  heads  they  were  already  falling  down.  He  bet  the  kid  
didn't  ride  the  board like that.

He bet the kid rode

(to beat the devil)

like there was no tomorrow.

That  good  feeling  died  out  of  his  chest.  He  saw,  all  too  clearly,  
the  board  going  out  from
under  his  feet,  shooting  unencumbered  down  the  street,  an  improbable  
fluorescent  green,  a
color  that  only  a  child  could  love.  He  saw himself  coming  down  on  
his  ass,  maybe  on  his
back.  Slow  dissolve  to  a  private  room  at  the  Derry  Home  Hospital,  
like  the  one  they  had
visited  Eddie  in  after  his  arm  had  been  broken.  Bill  Denbrough  in  a 
 full  body-cast,  one  leg
held  up  by  pullies  and  wires.  A  doctor  comes  in,  looks  at  his  
chart,  looks  at  him,  and  then
says:  'You  were  guilty  of  two  major  lapses,  Mr  Denbrough.  The  first  
was  mismanagement  of
a skateboard. The second was forgetting that you are now approaching forty 
years of age.'

He    bent,    picked    the    skateboard    back    up,    and    handed    
it    back    to    the    kid.    'I
guess not,' he said.

'Chicken,' the kid said, not unkindly.

Bill    hooked    his    thumbs    into    his    armpits    and    flapped    
his    elbows.    'Buck-buck-
buck,' he said.

The kid laughed. 'Listen, I got to get home.'
'Be careful on that,' Bill said.

'You  can't  be  careful  on  a  skateboard,'  the  kid  replied,  looking  at  
Bill  as  if  he  might  be  the

one with toys in the attic.

'Right,'  Bill said. 'Okay. As we say in the movie biz, I hear you. But stay 
away from drams
and sewers. And stay with your friends.'

The kid nodded. 'I'm right near home.'

So was my brother, Bill thought.

'It'll be over soon, anyway,' Bill told the kid.
'Will it?' the kid asked.

'I think so,' Bill said.


'Okay. See you later . . . chicken!'

The  kid  put  one  foot  on  the  board  and  pushed  off  with  the  other.  
Once  he  was  rolling  he
put the other foot on the board as well and went thundering down the street at 
what seemed to
Bill  a  suicidal  pace.  But  he  rode  as  Bill  had  suspected  he  would:  
with  lazy  hipshot  grace.  Bill
felt  love  for  the  boy,  and  exhilaration,  and  a  desire  to  be  the  
boy,  along  with  an  almost
suffocating  fear.  The  boy  rode  as  if  there  were  no  such  things  as  
death  or  getting  older.  The
boy  seemed  somehow  eternal  and  ineluctable  in  his  khaki  Boy  Scout  
shorts  and  scuffed
sneakers, his ankles sockless and quite dirty, his hair flying back behind him.

Watch out, kid, you're not going to make the comer!  Bill thought, alarmed, but 
the kid shot

his  hips  to  the  left  like  a  break-dancer, his toes revolved on the green 
Fiberglas board, and he
zoomed  effortlessly  around  the  corner  and  onto  Jackson  Street,  simply  
assuming  no  one
would be there to get in his way. Kid, Bill thought, it won't always be that 
way.

He walked up to his old house but did not stop; he only slowed his walk down to 
an idler's
pace. There were people on the lawn  —  a mother in a lawn chair, a sleeping 
baby in her  arms,
watching  two  kids,  maybe  ten  and  eight,  play  badminton  in  grass  that 
 was  still  wet  from  the
rain earlier. The younger of the two, a boy, managed to hit the bird back over 
the net and the
woman called, 'Good one, Scan!'

The  house  was  the  same  dark-green  color  and  the  fanlight  was  still  
over  the  door,  but  his
mother's  flower-beds  were  gone.  So,  from  what  he  could  see,  was  the 
jungle-gym his father
had  built  from  scavenged  pipes  in  the  back  yard.  He  remembered  the  
day  Georgie  had  fallen
off the top and chipped a tooth. How he had screamed!

He  saw  these  things  (the  ones  there  and  the  ones  gone),  and  thought 
 of  walking  over  to  the

woman  with  the  sleeping  baby  in  her  arms.  He  thought  of  saying  
Hello,  my  name  is  Bill
Denbrough.  I  used  to  live  here.  And the woman saying,  That's nice.  What 
else could there
be? Could he ask her if the face he had carved carefully in one of the attic 
beams  — the face
he  and  Georgie  sometimes  used  to  throw  darts  at  —  was  still  there?  
Could  he  ask  her  if  her
kids  sometimes  slept  on  the  screened-in  back  porch  when  the  summer  
nights  were  especially
hot,  talking  together  in  low  tones  as  they  watched  heat-lightning  
dance  on  the  horizon?  He
supposed  he  might  be  able  to  ask  some  of  those  things,  but  he  felt 
 he  would  stutter  quite
badly  if  he  tried  to  be  charming  .  .  .  and  did  he  really  want  to 
 know  the  answers  to  any  of
those  questions?  After  Georgie  died  it  had  become  a  cold  house,  and  
whatever  he  had  come
back to Derry for was not here.

So he went on to the corner and turned right, not looking back.

Soon  he  was  on  Kansas  Street,  headed  back  downtown.  He  paused  for  
awhile  at  the  fence
which  bordered  the  sidewalk,  looking  down  into  the  Barrens.  The  fence 
 was  the  same,  rickety
wood   covered   with   fading   whitewash,   and   the   Barrens  looked  the  
same  .  .  .  wilder,  if
anything.  The  only  differences  he  could  see  were  that  the  dirty  
smudge  of  smoke  which  had
always  marked  the  town  dump  was  gone  (the  dump  had  been  replaced  
with  a  modern  waste-
treatment   plant),   and   a   long   overpass   marched  across  the  tangled 
 greenery  now   —  the
turnpike  extension.  Everything  else  was  so  similar  that  he  might  last 
 have  seen  it  the  previous
summer:  weeds  and  bushes  sloping  down  to  that  flat  marshy  area  on  
the  left  and  to  dense
copses  of  junky-scrubby  trees  on  the  right.  He  could  see  the  stands  
of  what  they  had  called
bamboo,  the  silvery-white  stalks  twelve  and  fourteen  feet  high.  He  
remembered  that  Richie
had  once  tried  to  smoke  some  of  it,  claiming  it  was  like  the  stuff 
 jazz  musicians  smoked  and
could get you high. All Richie had gotten was sick.

Bill  could  hear  the  trickle  of  water  running  in  many  small  streams,  
could  see  the  sun
heliographing  off  the  broader  expanse  of  the  Kenduskeag.  And  the  
smell  was  the  same,  even
with  the  dump  gone.  The  heavy  perfume  of  growing  things  at  the  
height  of  their  spring  strut
did  not  quite  mask  the  smell  of  waste  and  human  offal.  It  was  
faint  but  unmistakable.  A  smell
of corruption; a whiff of the underside.


That's where it ended before, and that's where it's going to end this time,  
Bill thought with
a shiver. In there . . . under the city.

He  stood  awhile  longer,  convinced  that  he  must  see  something  —  some  
manifestation  —
of  the  evil  he  had  come  back  to  Derry  to  fight.  There  was  nothing. 
 He  heard  water  running,  a
springlike  and  vital  sound  that  reminded  him  of  the  dam  they  had  
built  down  there.  He  could
see  trees  and  bushes  ruffling  in  the  faint  breeze.  There  was  nothing 
 else.  No  sign.  He  walked
on, dusting a faint whitewash stain from his hands as he went.

He  kept  heading  downtown,  half-remembering,  half-dreaming,  and  here  
came  another  kid

—  this  one  a  little  girl  of  about  ten  in  high-waisted  corduroy  
pants  and  a  faded  red  blouse.
She  was  bouncing  a  ball  with  one  hand  and  holding  a  babydoll  by  
its  blonde  Arnel  hair in the
other.

'Hey!' Bill said.

She looked up. 'What!'

'What's the best store in Derry?'

She thought about it.' For me or for anyone?'
'For you,' Bill said.

'Secondhand Rose, Secondhand Clothes,' she said with no hesitation whatsoever.
'I beg your pardon?' Bill asked.

'You beg what?

'I mean, is that a store name?'

'Sure,'  she  said,  looking  at  Bill  as  though  he  might  well  be  
enfeebled.  'Secondhand  Rose,
Secondhand  Clothes.  My  mom  says  it's  a  junkshop,  but  I  like  it. They 
have old things. Like
records  you  never  heard  of.  Also  postcards.  It  smells  like  a  attic.  
I  have  to  go  home  now.
Bye.'

She walked on, not looking back, bouncing her ball and holding her dolly by the 
hair.
'Hey!' he shouted after her.

She looked back whimsically. 'I beg your whatchamacallit?'
The store! Where is it?'

She looked back over her shoulder and said, 'Just the way you're going. It's at 
the bottom of

Up-Mile Hill.'

Bill  felt  that  sense  of  the  past  folding  in  on  itself,   folding in 
on him. He hadn't meant to ask
that  little  girl  anything;  the  question  had  popped  out  of  his  mouth  
like  a  cork  flying  from  the
neck of a champagne bottle.

He   descended   Up-Mile  Hill  toward  downtown.  The  warehouses  and  
packing  plants  he
remembered   from   childhood   —   gloomy   brick   buildings   with   duty   
windows   from   which
titanic  meaty  smells  issued  —  were  mostly  gone,  although  the  Armour  
and  the  Star  Beef
meat-packing  plants  were  still  there.  But  Hemphill  was  gone  and  there 
 was  a  drive -in  bank
and a  bakery  where  Eagle  Beef  and  Kosher  Meats  had  been.  And  there,  
where  the  Tracker
Brothers'  Annex  had  stood,  was  a  sign  painted  in  oldfashioned  letters 
 which  read,  just  as  the
girl  with  the  doll  had  said,  SECONDHAND  ROSE,  SECONDHAND  CLOTHES.  The 
 red  brick  ha d
been  painted  a  yellow  which  had  perhaps  been  jaunty  ten  or  twelve  
years  ago,  but  was  now
dingy — a color Audra called urine -yellow.

Bill  walked  slowly  toward  it,  feeling  that  sense  of  déjà  vu  settle  
over  nun  again.  Later  he
told the others he knew what ghost he was going to see before he actually saw 
it.

The  show-window  of  Secondhand  Rose,  Secondhand  Clothes  was  more  than  
dingy;  it  was
filthy.  No  Downcast  antique  shop  this,  with  nifty  little  spool-beds  
and  Hoosier  cabinets  and
sets   of   Depression   glassware   highlighted   by   hidden   spotlights;   
this   was   what   his   mother
called  with  utter  disdain  'a  Yankee  pawnshop.'  The  items  were  strewn  
in  rickrack  profusion,
heaped  aimlessly  here,  there,  and  everywhere.  Dresses  slumped  off  
coathangers.  Guitars  hung
from their  necks  like  executed  criminals.  There  was  a  box  of  45  rpm  
records  —  10  c APIECE,


the sign read.  TWELVE  FOR  A  BUCK.  ANDREWS SISTERS, PERRY COMO,  JIMMY  
ROGERS, OTHERS.

There  were  kids'  outfits  and  dreadful-looking  shoes  with  a  card  in  
front  of  them  which read
SECONDS,  BUT  NOT  BAD!  $1.00  A  PAIR.  There  were  two  TVs  that  looked  
blind.  A  third  was
casting bleared images of  The Brady Bunch  out  toward  the  street.  A  box  
of  old  paperbacks,
most with stripped covers (2  FOR A QUARTER, 10  FOR A DOLLAR, more inside, 
SOME  'HOT') sat
atop  a  large  radio  with  a  filthy  white  plastic  case  and  a  tuning  
dial  as  big  as  an  alarm  clock.
Bunches of plastic flowers sat in dirty vases on a chipped, gouged, dusty 
dining-room table.

All  of  these  things  Bill  saw  as  a  chaotic  background  to  the  thing  
his  eyes  had  fixed  upon
immediately.  He  stood  staring  at  it  with  wide  unbelieving  eyes.  
Gooseflesh  ran  madly  up  and
down his body. His forehead was hot, his hands cold, and for a moment it seemed 
that all the
doors inside would swing wide and he would remember everything.

Silver was in the righthand window.

His  kickstand  was  still  gone  and  rust  had  flowered  on  the  front  and 
 back  fenders,  but  the
oogah-horn  was  still  there  on  the  handlebars,  its  rubber  bulb  now  
glazed  with  cracks  and age.
The  horn  itself,  which  Bill  had  always  kept  neatly  polished,  was  
dull  and  pitted.  The  flat
package  carrier  where  Richie  had  often  ridden  double  was  still  on  
the  back  fender,  but  it  was
bent  now,  hanging  by  a  single  bolt.  At  some  point  someone  had  
covered  the  seat  with
imitation  tiger-skin  which  was  now  rubbed  and  frayed  to  a  point  
where  the  stripes  were
almost indistinguishable.

Silver.

Bill  raised  an  absent  hand  to  wipe  away  the  tears  that  were  running 
 slowly  down  his
cheeks. After he had done a better job with his handkerchief, he went inside.

The  atmosphere  of  Secondhand  Rose,  Secondhand  Clothes  was  musty  with  
age.  It  was,  as
the  girl  had  said,  a  attic  smell  —  but not a good smell, as some attic 
smells are. This was not
the  smell  of  linseed  oil  rubbed  lovingly  into  the  surface  of  old  
tables  or  of  ancient  plush  and
velvet.  In  here  was  a  smell  of  rotting  book-bindings,  dirty  vinyl  
cushions  that  had  been  half-
cooked in the hot suns of summers past, dust, mouse-turds.

From  the  TV  in  the  window  the  Brady  Bunch  cackled  and  whooped.  
Competing  with  them
from  somewhere  in  the  back  was  the  radio  voice  of  a  disc  jockey  
identifying  himself  as  'your
pal  Bobby  Russell'  promising  the  new  album  by  Prince  to  the  caller  
who  could  give  the  name
of  the  actor  who  had  played  Wally  on Leave  It  to  Beaver.  Bill knew  
—  it  had  been  a  kid
named  Tony  Dow  —  but  he  didn't  want  the  new  Prince  album.  The  
radio  was  sitting  on  a
high   shelf   amid   a   number   of   nineteenth-century   portraits.   Below 
  it   and   them   sat   the
proprietor,  a  man  of  perhaps  forty  who  was  wearing  designer  jeans  
and  a  fishnet  tee-shirt. His
hair     was  slicked  back  and  he  was  thin  to  the  point  of emaciation. 
His feet were cocked up on
his  desk,  which  was  piled  high  with  ledgers  and  dominated  by  an  old 
 scrolled cash register.
He  was  reading  a  paperback  novel  which  Bill  thought  had  never  been  
nominated  for  the
Pulitzer Prize. It was called  Construction Site Studs.  On  the  floor  in  
front  of  the  desk  was  a
barber  pole,  its  stripe  revolving  up  and  up  into  infinity.  Its  
frayed  cord  wound  across  the  floor
to     a baseboard plug like a tired snake. The sign in front of it read: A 
DYEING BREED ! $250.

When  the  bell  over  the  door  jingled,  the  man  behind  the  desk  marked 
 his  place  with  a
matchbook cover and looked up. 'Help you?'

'Yes,'  Bill  said,  and  opened  his  mouth  to  ask  about  the  bike  in  
the  window.  But  before  he
could  speak,  his  mind  was  suddenly  filled  with  a  single  haunting  
sentence,  words  that  drove
away all other thought:

He thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts.
What in the name of God?

(thrusts)

'Looking  for  anything  in  particular?'  the  proprietor  asked.  His  voice  
was  polite  enough,  but
he was looking at Bill closely.


He's  looking  at  me,  Bill  thought,  amused in spite of his distress, as  if 
he's got an idea I've
been smoking some of that stuff that gets the jazz musicians high.

'Yes, I was ih-ih-interested ih-in — '

(his fists against the posts)

' — in that puh-puh-post — '

'The   barber   pole ,  you  mean?'  The  proprietor's  eyes  now  showed  Bill 
 something  which,
even  in  his  present  confused  state,  he  remembered  and  hated  from  his 
 childhood:  the  anxiety
of  a  man  or  woman  who  must  listen  to  a  stutterer,  the  urge  to  
jump  in  quickly  and  finish  the
thought, thus shutting the poor bastard up.  But I don't stutter! I beat it! I 
DON'T FUCKING
STUTTER! I —

(and still insists)

The  words  were  so  clear  in  his  mind  that  it  seemed  someone  else  
must  be  speaking  in
there,  that  he  was  like  a  man  possessed  by  demons  in  Biblical  times 
  —  a  man  invaded  by
some  presence  from  Outside.  And  yet  he  recognized  the  voice  and  knew 
 it  was  his  own.  He
felt sweat pop out warmly on his face.

'I could give you

(he sees the ghosts)

a  deal  on  that  post,'  the  proprietor  was  saying.  'Tell  you  the  
truth,  I  can't  move  it  at  two-
fifty. I'd give it to you for one-seventy-five, how's that? It's the only real 
antique in the place.'

(post)

'POLE,'   Bill   almost   screamed,   and   the   proprietor   recoiled   a   
little.   'Not   the  pole   I'm
interested in.'

'Are  you  okay,  mister?'  the  proprietor  asked.  His  solicitous  tone  
belied  the  expression  of
hard  wariness  in  his  eyes,  and  Bill  saw  his  left  hand  leave  the  
desk.  He  knew,  with  a  flash  of
something   that   was   really   more   inductive  reasoning  than  intuition  
that  there  was  an  open
drawer  below  Bill's  own sight-line, and that the proprietor had almost 
surely put his hand on a
pistol  of  some  type.  He  was  maybe  worried  about  robbery;  more  likely 
 he  was  just  worried.
He  was,  after  all,  cle arly  gay,  and  this  was  the  town  where  the  
local  juveniles  had  given
Adrian Mellon a terminal bath.

(he thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts)
It drove out all thought; it was like being insane. Where had it come from?
(he thrusts)

Repeating and repeating.

With  a  sudden  titanic  effort,  Bill  attacked  it.  He  did  this  by  
forcing  his  mind  to  translate  the
alien sentence into French. It was the same way he had beaten the stutter as a 
teenager. As the
words  marched across his field of thought, he changed them . . . and suddenly 
he felt the grip
of the stutter loosen.

He realized that the proprietor had been saying something.
'P-P-Pardon me?'

'I  said  if  you're  going  to  have  a  fit,  take  it  out  on  the  street. 
 I  don't  need  shit  like  that  in
here.'

Bill drew in a deep breath.

'Let's start o-over,' he said. 'Pretend I just came i-in.'

'Okay,' the proprietor said, agreeably enough. 'You just came in. Now what?'
'The b-bike in the window,' Bill said. 'How much do you want for the bike?'

'Take  twenty  bucks.'  He  sounded  easier  now,  but  his  left  hand  still  
hadn't  come  back  into

view.  'I  think  it  was  a  Schwinn  at  one  time,  but  it's  a  mongrel  
now.'  His  eye  measured  Bill.
'Big bike. You could ride it yourself.'

Thinking of the kid's green skateboard, Bill said, 'I think my bike-riding days 
are o-o-over.'

The proprietor shrugged. His left hand finally came up again. 'Got a boy?'


'Y-Yes.'

'How old is he?'
'Eh-Eh-Eleven.'

'Big bike for an eleven-year-old.'

'Will you take a traveller's check?'

'Long as it's no more than ten bucks over the amount of the purchase.'
'I can give you a twenty,' Bill said. 'Mind if I make a phone call?'

'Not if it's local.'
'It is.'

'Be my guest.'

Bill  called  the  Derry  Public  Library.  Mike  was  there.  'Where  are  
you,  Bill?'  he  asked,  and
then immediately: 'Are you all right?'

'I'm fine. Have you seen any of the others?'

'No.  We'll  see  them  tonight.'  There  was  a  brief pause.  That  is,  I  
presume.  What  can  I  do
you for, Big Bill?'

'I'm  buying  a  bike,'  Bill  said  calmly.  'I  wondered  if  I  could  wheel 
 it  up  to  your  house.  Do
you have a garage or something I could store it in?'

There was silence.
'Mike? Are you — '

'I'm here,' Mike said. 'Is it Silver?'

Bill   looked   at   the   proprietor.   He   was   reading   his   book   
again   .   .   .   or   maybe
just looking at it and listening carefully.

'Yes,' he said.
'Where are you?'

'It's called Secondhand Rose, Secondhand Clothes.'

'All    right,'    Mike    said.    'My    place    is    61    Palmer    Lane. 
   You'd    want    to    go    up
MainStreet — '

'I can find it.'

'All right, I'll meet you there. Want some supper?'
'That would be nice. Can you get off work?'

'No  problem.  Carole  will  cover for me.' Mike hesitated again. 'She said 
that a fellow was in

about  an  hour  before  I  got  back  here.  Said  he  left  looking  like  a  
ghost.  I  got  her  to  describe
him. It was Ben.'

'You sure?'

'Yeah. And the bike. That's part of it, too, isn't it?'

'Shouldn't     wonder,'     Bill     said,     keeping     an     eye     on    
 the     proprietor,     who     still
appeared to be absorbed in his book.

'I'll see you at my place,' Mike said. 'Number 61. Don't forget.'
'I won't. Thank you, Mike.'

'God bless, Big Bill.'

Bill hung  up.  The  proprietor  promptly  closed  his  book  again.  'Got  you 
 some  storage  space,
my friend?'

'Yeah.'  Bill  took  out  his  traveller's  checks  and  signed  his  name  to  
a  twenty.  The  proprietor
examined  the  two  signatures  with  a  care  that,  in  less  distracted  
mental  circumstances,  Bill
would have found rather insulting.

At  last  the  proprietor  scribbled  a  bill  of  sale  and  popped  the  
traveller's  check  into  his  old
cash  register.  He  got  up,  put  his  hands  on  the  small  of  his  back  
and  stretched,  then  walked  to
the   front   of   the   store.   He   picked   his   way   around   the   
heaps   of   junk   and   almost-junk
merchandise with an absent delicacy Bill found fascinating.


He  lifted  the  bike,  swung  it  around,  and  rolled  it  to  the  edge  of  
the  display  space.  Bill  laid
hold  of  the  handlebars  to  help  him,  and  as  he  did  another  shudder  
whipped  through  him.

Silver. Again. It was Silver in his hands and

(he thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts)

he had to force the thought away because it made him feel faint and strange.

'That  back  tire's  a  little  soft,'  the  proprietor  said  (it  was,  in  
fact,  as  flat  as  a  pancake).  The
front tire was up, but so bald the cord was showing through in places.

'No problem,' Bill said.

'You can handle it from here?'

(I used to be able to handle it just fine; now I don't know)

'I guess so,' Bill said. 'Thanks.'

'Sure. And if you want to talk about that barber pole, come back.'

The  proprietor  held  the  door  for  him.  Bill  walked  the  bike  out,  
turned  left,  and  started
toward  Main  Street.  People  glanced  with  amusement  and  curiosity  at  
the  man  with  the  bald
head  pushing  the  huge  bike  with  the  flat  rear  tire  and  the  
oogah-horn  protruding  over  the
rusty  bike-basket,  but  Bill  hardly  noticed  them.  He  was  marvelling  at 
 how  well  his  grownup
hands  still  fitted  the  rubber  handgrips,  was  remembering  how  he  had  
always  meant  to  knot
some  thin  strips  of  plastic,  different  colors,  into  the  holes  in  
each  grip  so  they  would  flutter  in
the wind. He had never gotten around to that.

He stopped at the corner of Center and Main, outside of Mr Paperback. He leaned 
the bike
against  the  building  long  enough  to  strip  off  his  sportcoat.  Pushing  
a  bike  with  a  flat  tire  was
hard  work,  and  the  afternoon  had  come  off  hot.  He  tossed  the  coat  
into  the  basket  and  went
on.

Chain's rusty, he thought. Whoever had it didn't take very good care of
(him)

it.

He  stopped  for  a  moment,  frowning,  trying  to  remember  just  what   had 
 happened to Silver.
Had  he  sold  it?  Given  it  away?  Lost  it,  perhaps?  He  couldn't  
remember.  Instead,  that  idiotic
sentence

(his fists against the posts and still insists)

resurfaced, as strange and out of place as an easy chair on a battlefield, a 
record-player in a
fireplace, a row of pencils protruding from a cement sidewalk.

Bill  shook  his  head.  The  sentence  broke  up  and  dispersed  like  smoke. 
 He  pushed  Silver  on
to Mike's place.

6

Mike Hanlon Makes a Connection

But  first  he  made  supper   —  hamburgers  with  sauteed  mushrooms  and  
onions  and  aspinach
salad. They had finished working on Silver by then and were more than ready to 
eat.

The  house  was  a  neat  little  Cape  Cod,  white  with  green  trim.  Mike  
had  just  been  arriving
when  Bill  pushed  Silver  up  Palmer  Lane.  He  was  behind  the  wheel  of  
an  old Ford with rusty
rocker  panels  and  a  cracked  rear  window,  and  Bill  remembered  the  
fact  Mike  had  so  quietly
pointed  out:  the  six  members  of  the  Losers'  Club  who  left  Derry  had 
 quit  being  losers.  Mike
had stayed behind and was still behind.

Bill rolled  Silver  into  Mike's  garage,  which  was  floored  with  oiled  
dirt  and  was  every  bit  as
neat  as  the  house  proved  to  be.  Tools  hung  from  pegs,  and  the  
lights,  shielded  with  tin  cones,
looked  like  the  lights  which  hang  over  pool  tables.  Bill  leaned  the  
bike  against the wall. The
two of them looked at it without speaking for a bit, hands in pockets.


'It's  Silver,  all  right,'  Mike  said  at  last.  'I  thought  you  might  
have  been  wrong.  But  it's  him.

What are you going to do with him?'

'Fucked if I know. Have you got a bicycle pump?'

'Yeah. I think I've got a tire-patching kit, too. Are those tubeless tires?'
'They always were.' Bill bent down to look at the flat tire. 'Yeah. Tubeless.'
'Getting ready to ride it again?'

'Of c-course not,' Bill said sharply. 'I just don't like to see it 
si-hi-hitting there on a flat.'
'Whatever you say, Big Bill. You're the boss.'

Bill  looked  around  sharply  at  that,  but  Mike  had  gone  to  the  
garage's  back  wall  and  was

taking  down  a  tire-pump.  He  got  a  tin  tir e-patching kit from one of 
the cabinets and handed it
to  Bill,  who  looked  at  it  curiously.  It  was  as  he  remembered  such  
things  from  his  childhood:  a
small  tin  box  of  about  the  same  size  and  shape  as  those  kept  by  
men  who  roll  their  own
cigarettes,  except  the  top  was  bright  and  pebbled  —  you  used  it  for 
 roughing  the  rubber
around  the  hole  before  you  put  on  the  patch.  The  box  looked  
brand-new,  and  there  was  a
Woolco price sticker on it that said $7.23. It seemed to him that when he was a 
kid such a kit
had gone for about a buck-twenty-five.

'You didn't just have this hanging around,' Bill said. It wasn't a question.

'No,' Mike agreed. 'I bought it last week. Out at the mall, as a matter of 
fact.'
'You've got a bike of your own?'

'No,' Mike said, meeting his eyes.
'You just happened to buy this kit.'

'Just  got  the  urge,'  Mike  agreed,  his  eyes  still  on  Bill's.  'Woke  
up  thinking  it  might  come  in

handy. The thought kept coming back all day. So . . . I got the kit. And here 
you are to use it.'

'Here  I  am  to  use  it,'  Bill  agreed.  'But  like  they  say  on  the  
soaps,  what  does  it  all  mean,
dear?'

'Ask the others,' Mike said. 'Tonight.'

'Will they all be there, do you think?'

'I  don't  know,  Big  Bill.'  He  paused  and  added:  'I  think  there's  a  
chance  that  all  of  them
won't be. One or two of them may decide to just creep out of town. Or . . . 'He 
shrugged.

'What do we do if that happens?'

'I  don't  know.'  Mike  pointed  to  the  tire-patching  kit.  'I  paid  seven 
 bucks  for  that  thing.  Are
you going to do something with it or just look at it?'

Bill  took  his  sportcoat  out  of  the  basket  and  hung  it  carefully  on  
an  unoccupied  wallpeg.
Then  he  turned  Silver  upside  down  so  that  he  rested  on  his  seat  
and  began  to  carefully  rotate
the  rear  tire.  He  didn't  like  the  rusty  way  the  axle  squeaked,  and  
remembered  the  almost  silent
click of the ball-bearings in the kid's skateboard.  A  little  3-in-1 oil 
would fix that right up,  he
thought.

Wouldn't hurt to oil the chain, either. It's rusty as hell . . . And playing 
cards. It needs playing
cards on the spokes. Mike would have cards, I bet. The good ones. Bikes, with 
the celluloid
coating that made them so stiff and so slippery that the first time you tried 
to shuffle them
they always sprayed all over the floor. Playing cards, sure, and clothespins to 
hold them —

He stopped, suddenly cold.

What in the name of Jesus are you thinking of?

'Something wrong, Bill?' Mike asked softly.

'Nothing.'  His  fingers  touched  something  small  and  round  and  hard.  He 
 got  his  nails  under
it  and  pulled.  A  small  tack  came  out  of  the  tire.  'Here's  the  
cuh-cuh-culprit,'  he  said,  and  it
rose in his mind again, strange, unbidden, and powerful:  He  thrusts  his  
fists  against  the  posts
and  still  insists  he  sees  the  ghosts.  But  this  time  the  voice,  his  
voice,  was  followed  by  his
mother's  voice,  saying:  Try  again,  Billy.  You  almost  had  it  that  
time.  And Andy Devine as
Guy Madison's sidekick Jingles yelling, Hey, Wild Bill, wait for me!


He shivered.

(the posts)

He shook his head.  I couldn't say that without stuttering even now,  he 
thought, and for just
a moment he felt that he was on the edge of understanding it all.

Then it was gone.

He  opened  the  tire-patching  kit  and  went  to  work.  It  took  a  long  
time  to  get  it  just  right.
Mike  leaned  against  the  wall  in  a  bar  of  late-afternoon  sun,  the  
sleeves  of  his  shirt  rolled  up
and  his  tie  yanked  down,  whistling  a  tune  which  Bill  finally  
identified  as  'She  Blinded  Me
with Science.'

While  he  waited  for  the  tire   cement  to  set,  Bill  had   —  just  for  
something  to  do,  he  told
himself  —  oiled  Silver's  chain,  sprocket,  and  axles.  It  didn't  make  
the  bike  look  any  better,
but  when  he  spun  the  tires  he  found  that  the  squeak  was  gone,  and  
that  was  satisfying.  Silver
never  would  have  won  any  beauty-contests  anyway.  His  one  virtue  was  
that  he  could  go  like
a blue streak.

By  that  tune,  five-thirty  in  the  afternoon,  he  had  nearly  forgotten  
Mike  was  there;  he  had
become  completely  absorbed  in  small  yet  utterly  satisfying  acts  of  
maintenance.  He  screwed
the  nozzle  of  the  pump  onto  the  rear  tire's  valve  and  watched  the  
tire  fatten,  shooting  for  the
right pressure by guess and by gosh. He was pleased to see that the patch was 
holding nicely.

When  he  thought  he  had  it  right,  he  unscrewed  the  pump-nozzle  and  
was  about  to  turn
Silver  over  when  he  heard  the  rapid  snap-flutter  of  playing  cards  
behind  him.  He  whirled,
almost knocking Silver over.

Mike  was  standing  there  with  a  deck  of  blue-backed  Bicycle  playing  
cards  in  one  hand .

'Want these?'

Bill let out a long, shaky sigh. 'You've got clothespins, too, I suppose?'
Mike took four from the flap pocket of his shirt and held them out.
'Just happened to have them around, I suh-huppose?'

'Yeah, something like that,' Mike said.

Bill  took  the  cards  and  tried  to  shuffle  them.  His  hands  shook  and  
the  cards  sprayed  out  of
his  hands.  They  went  everywhere  .  ,  .  but  only  two  landed  face-up. 
Bill looked at them, then
up  at  Mike.  Mike's  gaze  was  frozen  on  the  littered  playing  cards.  
His  lips  had  pulled  back
from his teeth.

The two up cards were both the ace of spades.

'That's  impossible,'  Mike  said.  'I  just  opened  that  deck.  Look.'  He  
pointed  at  the  swill-can
just  inside  the  garage  door  and  Bill  saw  the  cellophane  wrapper, 'How 
can one deck of cards
have two aces of spades?'

Bill  bent  down  and  picked  them  up.  'How  can  you  spray  a  deck  of  
cards  all  over  the  floor
and have only two of them land face up?' he asked. 'That's an even better que — 
'

He  turned  the  aces  over,  looked,  and  then  showed  them  to  Mike.  One  
of  them  was  a
blueback, the other a redback.

'Holy Christ, Mikey, what have you got us into?'

'What are you going to do with those?' Mike asked in a numb voice.

'Why,  put  them  on,'  Bill  said,  and suddenly he began to laugh. 'That's 
what I'm supposed to
do,  isn't  it?  If  there  are  certain  preconditions  for  the  use  of  
magic,  those  preconditions  will
inevitably arrange themselves. Right?'

Mike  didn't  reply.  He  watched  as  Bill  went  to  Silver's  rear wheel and 
attached the playing
cards.  His  hands  were  still  shaking  and  it  took  awhile,  but  he  
finally  got  it  done,  drew  in  one
tight   breath,   held   it,   and   spun   the   rear   wheel.   The   playing 
  cards   machine-gunned   loudly
against the spokes in the garage's silence.

'Come on,' Mike said softly. 'Come on in, Big Bill. I'll make us some chow.'


They  had  scoffed  the  burgers  and  now  sat  smoking,  watching  dark  
begin  to  unfold  from
dusk  in  Mike's  back  yard.  Bill  took  out  his  wallet,  found  someone's  
business  card, and wrote
upon  it  the  sentence  that  had  plagued  him  ever  since  he  had  seen  
Silver  in  the  window  of
Secondhand  Rose,  Secondhand  Clothes.  He  showed  it  to  Mike,  who  read  
it  carefully,  lips
pursed.

'Does it mean anything to you?' Bill asked.

'"He  thrusts  his  fists  against  the  posts  and  still  insists  he  sees  
the  ghosts."'  He  nodded.  'Yes,
I know what that is.'

'Well  then,  tell  me.  Or  are  you  going  to  give  me  some  more  
cuh-cuh-crap about figuring it

out for myself?'

'No,'  Mike  said,  'in  this  case  I  think  it's  okay  to  tell  you.  The  
phrase  goes  back  to  English
times.  It's  a  tongue-twister  that  became  a  speech  exercise  for  
lispers  and  stutterers.  Your
mother  kept  trying  to  get  you  to  say  it  that  summer.  The  summer  of 
 1958.  You  used  to  go
around mumbling it to yourself.'

'I did?' Bill said, and then, slowly, answering his own question: 'I did.'
'You must have wanted to please her very much.'

Bill, who suddenly felt he might cry, only nodded. He didn't trust himself to 
speak.

'You  never made it,' Mike told him. 'I remember that. You tried like hell but 
your tang kept
getting all tungled up.'

'But I did say it,' Bill replied. 'At least once.'
'When?'

Bill  brought  his  fist  down  on  the  picnic  table  hard  enough  to  hurt. 
 'I  don't  remember!'  he

shouted. And then, dully, he said it again: 'I just don't remember.'


C H A P T E R  1 2

Three Uninvited Guests

1

On  the  day  after  Mike  Hanlon  made  his  calls,  Henry  Bowers  began  to  
hear  voices.  Voices
had  been  talking  to  him  all  day  long.  For  awhile,  Henry  thought  
they  were  coming  from  the
moon.  In  the  late  afternoon,  looking  up  from  where  he  was  hoeing  in 
 the  garden,  he  could  see
the moon in the blue daytime sky, pale and small. A ghost-moon.

That,  in  fact,  was  why  he  believed  it  was  the  moon  that  was  
talking  to  him.  Only  a  ghost-
moon  would  talk  in  ghost-voices  —  the  voices  of  his  old  friends,  
and  the  voices  of  those  little
kids  who  had  played  down  in  the  Barrens  so  long  ago.  Those,  and  
another  voice  .  .  .  one  he
did not dare name.

Victor  Criss  spoke  from  the  moon  first.  They  comin  back,  Henry.  All  
of  em,  man.  They
comin back to Derry.

Then Belch Huggins spoke from the moon, perhaps from the dark side of the moon. 
 You're
the only one, Henry. The only one of us left. You'll have to get em for me and 
Vie. Ain't no
little kids can rank us out like that. Why, I hit a ball one time down to 
Tracker's, and Tony
Tracker said that ball would have been out of Yankee Stadium.

He  hoed,  looking  up  at  the  ghost-moon  in  the  sky,  and  after  awhile 
Fogarty came over and
hit him in the back of the neck and knocked him flat on his face.

'You're hoein up the peas right along with the weeds, you ijit.'

Henry got up, brushing dirt off his face and out of his hair. There stood 
Fogarty, a big  man
in  a  white  jacket  and  white  pants,  his  belly  swelled  out  in  front  
of  him.  It  was  illegal  for  the
guards  (who  were  called  'counsellors'  here  at  Juniper  Hill)  to  carry  
billyclubs,  so  a  number  of
them  —  Fogarty,  Adler,  and  Koontz  were  the  worst  —  carried   rolls  
of  quarters  in  their
pockets.  They  almost  always  hit  you  with  them  in  the  same  place,  
right  in  the  back  of  the
neck.  There  was  no  rule  against  quarters.  Quarters  were  not  
considered  a  deadly  weapon  at
Juniper  Hill,  an  institution  for  the  mentally  ins ane  which  stood  on  
the  outskirts  of  Augusta
near the Sidney town line.

'I'm  sorry,  Mr  Fogarty,'  Henry  said,  and  offered  a  big  grin  which  
showed  an  irregular  line
of  yellow  teeth.  They  looked  like  the  pickets  in  a  fence  outside  a  
haunted  house.  Henry  had
begun to lose his teeth when he was fourteen or so.

'Yeah,  you're  sorry,'  Fogarty  said.  'You'll  be  a  lot  sorrier  if  I  
catch  you  doing  it  again,
Henry.'

'Yes sir, Mr Fogarty.'

Fogarty  walked  away,  his  black  shoes  leaving  big  brown  tracks  in  the 
dirt of West Garden.
Because  Fogarty's  back  was  turned,  Henry  took  a  moment  to  look  
around  surreptitiously.
They had been shooed out to hoe as soon as the clouds cleared, everyone from 
the Blue Ward

—   which  was  where  they  put  you  if  you  had  once  been  very  
dangerous  but  were  now
considered   only   moderately   dangerous.   Actually,   all   the   patients  
 at   Juniper   Hill   were
considered  moderately  dangerous;  it  was  a  facility  for  the  criminally  
insane.  Henry  Bowers
was  here  because  he  had  been  convicted  of  killing  his  father in the 
late fall of 1958  — it had
been a famous year for murder trials, all right; when it came to murder trials, 
1958 had been a
pip.


Only  of  course  it  wasn't  just  his   father  they  thought  he  had  
killed;  if  it  had  only  been  his
father,  Henry  would  not  have  spent  twenty  years  in  the  Augusta  State 
 Mental  Hospital,  much
of  that  time  under  physical  and  chemical  restraint.  No,  not  just  his 
 father;  the  authorities
thought he had killed all of them, or at least most of them.

Following  the  verdict  the   News  had  published  a  front-page  editorial  
titled  'The  End  of
Derry's  Long  Night.'  In  it  they  had  recapped  the  salient  points:  the 
 belt  in  Henry's  bureau  that
belonged  to  the  missing  Patrick  Hockstetter;  the  jumble  of  
schoolbooks,  some  signed  out  to
the  missing  Belch  Huggins  and  some  to  the  missing  Victor  Criss,  both 
 known  chums  of  the
Bowers  boy,  in  Henry's  closet;  most  damning  of  all,  the  panties  
found  tucked  into  a  slit  in
Henry's  mattress,  panties  which  had  been  identified  by  laundry-mark  as 
 having  belonged to
Veronica Grogan, deceased.

Henry  Bowers,  the  News  declared,  had  been  the  monster  haunting  Derry  
in  the  spring  and
summer of 1958.

But  then  the  News  had  proclaimed  the  end  of  Derry's  long  night  on  
the  front  page  of  its

December 6th edition, and even an ijit like Henry knew that in Derry night 
never ended.

They  had  bullied  him  with  questions,  had  stood  around  him  in  a  
circle,  had  pointed  fingers
at him. Twice the Chief of Police had slapped him across the face and once a 
detective named
Lottman had punched him in the gut, telling him to fess up, and be quick.

'There's  people  outside  and  they  ain't  happy,  Henry,'  this  Lottman  
had  said.  'There  ain't
been a lynching in Derry for a long tune, but that don't mean there couldn't be 
one.'

He  supposed  they  would  have  kept  it  up  as  long  as  necessary,  not  
because  any  of  them
really  believed  the  good  Derryfolk  were  going  to  break  into  the  
Police  station,  carry  Henry

out, and hang him from a sour-apple  tree,  but because they were desperate to 
close the books
on  that  summer's  blood  and  horror;  they  would  have,  but  Henry  didn't 
 make  them.  They
wanted  him  to  confess  to  everything,  he  understood  after  awhile.  
Henry  didn't  mind.  After  the
horror  in  the  sewers,  after  what  had  happened  to  Belch  and  Victor,  
he  didn't  seem  to  mind
about  anything.  Yes,  he  said,  he  had  killed  his  father  This  was  
true.  Yes,  he  had  killed  Victor
Criss and Belch Huggins. This was also true, at least in the sense that he had 
led them into the
tunnels  where  they  had  been  murdered.  Yes,  he  had  killed  Patrick.  
Yes,  Veronica.  Yes  one,
yes all. Not true, but it didn't matter. Blame needed to be taken. Perhaps that 
was why he had
been spared. And if he refused . . .

He  understood  about  Patrick's  belt.  He  had  won  it  from  Patrick  
playing  seal  one  day  in
April,  discovered  it  didn't  fit,  and  tossed  it  in  his  bureau.  He  
understood  about  the  books,  too

—  hell,  the  three  of  them  chummed  around  together  and  they  cared  no 
 more  for  their  summer

textbooks  than  they  had  for  their  regular  ones,  which  is  to  say,  
they  cared  for  them  about  as
much  as  a  woodchuck  cares  for  tap-dancing.  There  were  probably  as  
many  of  his  books  in
their closets, and the cops probably knew it, too.

The  panties  .  .  .  no,  he  didn't  know  how  Veronica  Grogan's  panties 
had come to be in his
mattress.

But he thought he knew who — or what — had taken care of it.
Best not to talk about such things.

Best to just dummy up.

So  they  sent  him  to  Augusta  and  finally,  in  1979,  they  had  
transferred  him  to  Juniper  Hill,
and he had only run into trouble once here and that was because at first no one 
understood. A
guy  had  tried  to  turn  off  Henry's  nightlight.  The  nightlight  was  
Donald  Duck  doffing  his  little
sailor  hat.  Donald  was  protection  after  the  sun  went  down.  With no 
light,  things  could come
in.  The  locks  on  the  door  and  the  wire  mesh  did  not  stop  them.  
They  came  like  mist.  Things.
They  talked  and  laughed  .  .  .  and  sometimes  they  clutched.  Hairy  
things,  smooth  things,
things  with  eyes.  The  sort  of  things  that  had  really  killed  Vie  and 
 Belch  when  the  three  of
them had chased the kids into the tunnels under Derry in August of 1958.


Looking  around  now,  he  saw  the  others  from  the  Blue  Ward.  There  was 
 George  DeVille,
who  had  murdered  his  wife  and  four  children  one   winter  night  in  
1962.  George's  head  was
studiously  bent,  his  white  hair  blowing  in  the  breeze,  snot  running  
gaily  out  of  his  nose,  his
huge  wooden  crucifix  bobbing  and  dancing  as  he  hoed.  There  was  Jimmy 
 Donlin,  and  all
they  said  in  the  papers  about  Jimmy was  that  he  had  killed  his  
mother  in  Portland  during  the
summer  of  1965,  but  what  they  hadn't  said  in  the  papers  was  that  
Jimmy  had  tried  a  novel
experiment  in  body-disposal:  by  the  time  the  cops  came  Jimmy  had  
eaten  more  than  half  of
her,  including  her  brains.  'They  made  me  twice  as  smart,'  Jimmy  had  
confided  to  Henry  one
night after lights-out.

In  the  row  beyond  Jimmy,  hoeing  fanatically  and  singing  the  same  
line  over  and  over,  as
always,   was   the   little   Frenchman   Benny   Beaulieu.   Benny   had   
been   a   firebug   —   a
pyromaniac.  Now  as  he  hoed  he  sang  this  line  from  the  Doors  over  
and  over:  'Try  to  set  the
night on fire, try to set the night on fire, try to set the night on fire, try 
to — '

It got on your nerves after awhile.

Beyond  Benny  was  Franklin  D'Cruz,  who  had  raped  over  fifty  women  
before  being  caught
with  his  pants  down  in  Bangor's  Terrace  Park.  The  ages  of  his  
victims  ranged  from  three  to
eighty-one.  Not  very  particular  was  Frank  D'Cruz.  Beyond  him  but  way  
back  was  Arlen
Weston,  who  spent  as  much  time  looking  dreamily  at  his  hoe  as  he  
did  using  it.  Fogarty,
Adler,  and  John  Koontz  had  all  tried  the  roll-of-quarters-in-the-fist 
trick on Weston to try and
convince  him  he  could  move  a  bit  faster,  and  one  day  Koontz  had  
hit  him  maybe  a  little  too
hard because  blood  came  not  only  from  Arlen  Weston's  nose  but  also  
from  Arlen's  ears  and
that  night  he  had  a  convulsion.  Not  a  big  one;  just  a  little  one.  
But  since  then  Arlen  had
drifted  further  and  further  into  his  own  interior  blackness  and  now  
he  was  a  hopeless  case,
almost totally unplugged from the world. Beyond Arlen was —

'You  want  to  pick  it  up  or  I'll  give  you  some  more  help,  Henry!'  
Fogarty  bawled  over,  and
Henry  began  to  hoe  again.  He  didn't  want  any  convulsions.  He  didn't  
want  to  end  up  like
Arlen Weston.

Soon the voices started in again. But this tune they were the voices of the 
others, the voices
of  the  kids  that  had  gotten  him  into  this  in  the  first  place,  
whispering  down  from  the  ghost-
moon.

You couldn't even catch a fatboy, Bowers, one of them whispered. Now I'm rich 
and you're
hoeing peas. Ha-ha on you, asshole!

B-B-Bowers,  you  c-c-couldn't  c-catch  a  c-c-cold!  Read  a-any  g-g-good  
b-b-books since
you've  been  in  th-there?  I  ruh-ruh-wrote  lots!  I'm  ruh-ruh-rich  
andy-you're  in  Juh-Juh-
hooniper Hill! Ha-ha on you, you stupid asshole!

'Shut  up,'  Henry  whispered  to  the  ghost-voices, hoeing faster, beginning 
to hoe up the new
pea-plants  along  with  the  weeds.  Sweat  rolled  down  his  cheeks  like  
tears.  'We  could've  taken
you. We could've.'

We  got  you  locked  up,  you  asshole,  another voice laughed.  You  chased  
me  and  couldn't
catch me and I got rich, too! Way to go, banana-heels!

'Shut up,' Henry muttered, hoeing faster. 'Just shut up!'

Did you want to get in my panties, Henry?  another voice teased. Too bad! I let 
all of them
do me, I was nothing but a slut, but now I'm rich too and we're all together 
again, and we're
doing it again but you couldn't do it now even if I let you because you 
couldn't get it up, so
ha-ha on you, Henry, ha-ha all OVER you —

He  hoed  madly,  weeds  and  dirt  and  pea-plants  flying;  the  ghost-voices 
 from  the  ghost-
moon  were  very  loud  now,  echoing  and  flying  in  his  head,  and  
Fogarty  was  running  toward
him, bellowing, but Henry could not hear. Because of the voices.


Couldn't even get hold of a nigger like me, could you?  another jeering 
ghost-voice chimed
in. We  killed  you  guys  in  that  rockfight!  We  fucking  killed you!! 
Ha-ha, asshole! Ha-ha all
over you!

Then  they  were  all  babbling  together,  laughing  at  him,  calling  him  
banana-heels,  asking
him  how  he'd  liked  the  shock-treatments  they'd  given  him  when  he  
came  up  here  to  the  Red
Ward,  asking  him  if  he  liked  it  here  at  Juh-Juh-hooniper  Hill,  
asking  and  laughing,  laughing
and  asking,  and  Henry  dropped  his hoe and began to scream up at the 
ghost-moon in the blue
sky  and  at  first  he  was  screaming  in  fury,  and  then  the  moon  
itself  changed and became the
face  of  the  clown,  its  face  a  rotted  pocked  cheesy  white,  its  eyes  
black  holes,  its  red  bloody
grin turned  up  in  a  smile  so  obscenely  ingenuous  that  it  was  
insupportable,  and  so  then  Henry
began  to  scream  not  in  fury  but  in  mortal  terror  and  the  voice  of  
the  clown  spoke  from  the
ghost-moon now and what it said was  You have to go back, Henry. You have to go 
back and
finish   the job. You have to go back to Derry and kill them all. For Me. For —

Then  Fogarty,  who  had  been  standing  nearby  and  yelling  at  Henry  for  
almost  two  minutes
(while  the  other  inmates  stood  in  their  rows,  hoes  grasped  in  their  
hands  like  comic phalluses,
their   expressions   not   exactly   interested   but   almost,   yes,   
almost   thoughtful,   as   if   they
understood  that  this  was  all  a  part  of  the  mystery  that  had  put  
them  here,  that  Henry  Bowers's
sudden  attack  of  the  screaming  meemies  in  West  Garden  was  interesting 
 in  some  more  than
technical  way),  got  tired  of  shouting  and  gave  Henry  a  real  blast  
with  his  quarters,  and  Henry
went  down  like  a  ton  of  bricks,  the  voice  of  the  clown  following  
him  down  into  that  terrible
whirlpool  of  darkness,  chanting  over and over again:  Kill  them  all,  
Henry,  kill  them  all,  kill
them all, kill them all.

2

Henry Bowers lay awake.

The  moon  was  down  and  he  felt  a  sharp  sense  of  gratitude  for  that. 
 The  moon  was  less
ghostly  at  night,  more  real,  and  if  he  should  see  that  dreadful  
clown-face  in  the  sky,  riding
over the hills and fields and woods, he believed he would die of terror.

He  lay  on  his  side,  staring  at  his  nightlight  intently.  Donald  Duck  
had  burned  out;  he  had
been  replaced  by  Mickey  and  Minnie  Mouse  dancing  a  polka;  they  had  
been  replaced  with
the  green-glowing  face  of  Oscar  the  Grouch  from Sesame Street,  and late 
last year Oscar had
been   replaced   by   the   face   of   Fozzie   Bear.   Henry   had   
measured   out   the   years   of   his
incarceration with burned-out nightlights instead of coffee-spoons.

At  exactly  2:04  A.M.  on  the  morning  of  May  30th,  his  nightlight  
went  out.  A  little  moan
escaped him  —  no  more.  Koontz  was  on  the  door  of  the  Blue  Ward  
tonight  — Koontz who
was  the  worst  of  the  lot.  Worse  even  than  Fogarty,  who  had hit him 
so hard in the afternoon
that Henry could barely turn his head.

Sleeping  around  him  were  the  other  Blue  Ward  inmates.  Benny  Beaulieu  
slept  in  elastic
restraints. He had been allowed to watch an  Emergency rerun on the wardroom TV 
when they
came   in  from  hoeing  and  around  six  o'clock  had  begun  jerking  off  
constantly  and  without  let-
up,  screaming  Try  to  set  the  night  on fire!  Try to set the night on  
fire! Try to set the night on
fire!' He had been sedated, and that was good for about four hours,  and then 
he had started in
again  around  eleven  when  the  Elavil  wore  off,  whipping  his  old  
dingus  so  hard  it  had  started
to  bleed  through  his  fingers,  shrieking  'Try  to  set  the  night  on  
fire!'  So they sedated him again
and  put  him  in  restraints.  Now  he  slept,  his  pinched  little  face  as 
 grave  in  the  dim  light  as
Aristotle's.

From  around  his  bed  Henry  could  hear  low  snores  and  loud  ones,  
grunts,  an  occasional
bedfart.  He  could  hear  Jimmy  Donlin's  breathing;  it  was  unmistakable  
even  though  Jimmy


slept  five  beds  over.  Rapid  and  faintly  whistling,  for  some  reason  
it  always  made  Henry  think
of  a  sewing  machine.  From  beyond  the  door  giving  on  the  hall  he  
could  hear  the  faint  sound
of  Koontz's  TV.  He  knew  that  Koontz  would  be  watching  the  late  
movies  on  Channel  38,
drinking  Texas  Driver  and  eating  his  lunch.  Koontz  favored  sandwiches  
made  out  of  chunky
peanut-butter  and  Bermuda  onions.  When  Henry  heard  this  he  had  
shuddered  and  thought:
And       they say all the crazy people are locked up.

This tune the voice didn't come from the moon.
This time it came from under the bed.

Henry  recognized  the  voice  at  once.  It  was  Victor  Criss,  whose  head  
had  been  torn  off

somewhere  beneath  Derry  twenty-seven  years  ago.  It  had  been  torn  off  
by  the  Frankenstein-
monster.  Henry  had  seen  it  happen,  and  afterward  he  had  seen  the  
monster's  eyes  shift  and
had   felt  its  watery  yellow  gaze  on  him.  Yes,  the  
Frankenstein-monster  had  killed  Victor  and
then  it  had  killed  Belch,  but  here  was  Vie  again,  like  the  almost  
ghostly  rerun  of  a  black-and-
white  program  from  the  Nifty  Fifties,  when  the  President  was  bald  
and  the  Buicks  had
portholes.

And now that it had happened, now that the voice had come, Henry found that he 
was calm
and unafraid. Relieved, even.

'Henry,' Victor said.

'Vie!' Henry cried. 'What you doing under there?'

Benny   Beaulieu   snorted   and   muttered   in   his   sleep.   Jimmy's   
neat   nasal   sewing-machine
inhales  and  exhales  paused for a  moment.  In the  hall, the  volume on 
Koontz's small Sony was
turned  down  and  Henry  Bowers  could  sense  him,  head  cocked  to  one  
side,  one  hand  on  the
TV's  volume  knob,  the  fingers  of  the  other  hand  touching  the  
cylinder  which  bulged  in  the
righthand pocket of his whites — the roll of quarters.

'You  don't  have  to  talk  out  loud,  Henry,'  Vie  said.  'I  can  hear  
you  if  you  just  think.  And
they can't hear me at all.'

What do you want, Vie? Henry asked.

There was no reply for a long time. Henry thought that maybe Vie had gone away. 
Outside
the  door  the  volume  of  Koontz's  TV  went  up  again.  Then  there  was  a 
 scratching  noise  from
under  the  bed;  the  springs  squealed  slightly  as  a  dark  shadow  pulled 
 itself  out  from  under.
Vie  looked  up  at  him  and  grinned.  Henry  grinned  back  uneasily.  Ole  
Vie  was  looking  a  little
bit  like  the  Frankenstein-monster  himself  these  days.  A  scar  like  a  
hangrope  tattoo  circled  his
neck.  Henry  thought  maybe  that  was  where  his  head  had  been  sewed  
back  on. His eyes were
a weird gray-green color, and the corneas seemed to float on a watery viscous 
substance.

Vie was still twelve.

'I want the same thing you want,' Vie said. 'I want to pay em back.'
Pay em back, Henry Bowers said dreamily.

'But  you'll  have  to  get  out  of  here  to  do  it,'  Vie  said.  'You'll  
have  to  go  back  to  Derry.  I
need you, Henry. We all need you.'

They can't hurt You, Henry said, understanding he was talking to more than Vie.

They   can't   hurt   Me   if   they   only   half-believe,'   Vie   said.   
'But   there   have   been   some
distressing  signs,  Henry.  We  didn't  think  they  could  beat  us  back  
then,  either.  But the fatboy
got  away  from  you  in  the  Barrens.  The  fatboy  and  the  smartmouth  and 
 the  quiff  got  away
from us that day after the movies. And the rockfight, when they saved the 
nigger — '

Don't  talk  about  that!  Henry  shouted  at  Vie,  and  for  a  moment  all  
of  the  peremptory
hardness  that  had  made  him  their  leader  was  in  his  voice.  Then  he  
cringed,  thinking  Vie
would hurt him  —  surely  Vie  could  do  whatever  he  wanted,  since  he  
was  a  ghost  — but Vie
only grinned.


'I  can  take  care  of  them  if  they  only  half-believe,' he said, 'but 
you're alive, Henry. You can
get  them  no  matter  if  they  believe,  half-believe,  or  don't  believe  
at  all.  You  can  get  them  one
by one or all at once. You can pay em back.'

Pay  em  back,  Henry  repeated.  Then  he  looked  at  Vie  doubtfully  again. 
 But  I  can't  get  out
of  here,  Vie.  There's  wire  on  the  windows  and  Koontz  is  on  the  
door  tonight.  Koontz  is  the
worst. Maybe tomorrow night . . .

'Don't worry about Koontz,' Vie said, standing up. Henry saw he was still 
wearing the jeans
he  had  been  wearing  that  day,  and  that  they  were  still  splattered  
with  drying  sewer-muck. 'I'll
take care of Koontz.' Vie held out his hand.

After  a  moment  Henry  took  it.  He  and  Vie  walked  toward  the  Blue  
Ward  door  and  the
sound  of  the  TV.  They  were  almost  there  when  Jimmy  Donlin,  who  had  
eaten  his  mother's
brains,  woke  up.  His  eyes  widened  as  he  saw  Henry's  late-night 
visitor. It was his mother. Her
slip  was  showing  just  a  quarter-inch  or  so,  as  it  always  had.  The  
top  of  her  head  was  gone.
Her  eyes,  horribly  red,  rolled  toward  him,  and  when  she  grinned,  
Jimmy  saw  the  lipstick
smears  on  her  yellow,  horsy  teeth  as  he  always  had.  Jimmy  began  to  
shriek.  'No,  Ma!  No,
Ma! No Ma!'

The  TV  went  off  at  once,  and  even  before  the  others  could  begin  to 
 stir,  Koontz  was
jerking  the  door  open  and  saying,  'Okay,  asshole,  get  ready  to  catch 
 your  head  on  the
rebound. I've had it.'

'No, Ma! No, Ma! Please, Ma! No, Ma — '

Koontz   came   rushing   in.   First   he   saw   Bowers,   standing   tall   
and   paunchy   and   nearly
ridiculous  in  his  johnny,  his  loose  flesh  doughy  in  the  light  
spilling  in  from  the  corridor.  Then
he  looked  left  and  screamed  out  two  lungfuls  of  silent  spun  glass.  
Standing  by  Bowers  was  a
thing  in  a  clown  suit.  It  stood  perhaps  eight  feet  tall.  Its  suit  
was  silvery.   Orange  pompoms
ran down the front. There were oversized funny shoes on its feet. But its head 
was not that of
a  man  or  a  clown;  it  was  the  head  of  a  Doberman  pinscher,  the  
only  animal  on  God's  green
earth  of  which  John  Koontz  was  frightened.  Its  eyes  were  red.  Its  
silky  muzzle  wrinkled  back
to show huge white teeth.

A  cylinder  of  quarters  fell  from  Koontz's  nerveless  fingers  and  
rolled  across  the  floor  and
into  the  corner.  Late  the  following  day  Benny  Beaulieu,  who  slept  
through  the  whole  thing,
would  find  them  and  hide  them  in  his  footlocker.  The  quarters  bought 
 him  cigarettes  —
tailor-mades — for a month.

Koontz hitched in breath to scream again as the clown lurched toward him.

'It's    time    for    the    circus!'    the    clown    screamed    in    a  
  growling    voice,    and    its
white-gloved hands fell on Koontz's shoulders.

Except that the hands inside those gloves felt like paws.

3

For the third time that day — that long, long day — Kay McCall went to the 
telephone.

She  got  further  this  time  than  she  had  on  ht e  first  two  occasions; 
 this  time  she  waited  until

the phone had been picked up on the other end and a hearty Irish cop's voice 
said 'Sixth Street
Station, Sergeant O'Bannon, how may I help you?' before hanging up.

Oh, you're doing fine. Jesus, yes. By the eighth or ninth time you'll have 
mustered up guts
enough to give him your name.

She  went  into  the  kitchen  and  fixed  herself  a  weak  Scotch-and-soda, 
although she knew it
probably wasn't a good idea on top of the Darvon. She recalled a snatch of 
folk-song from the
college coffee-houses of her youth  — Got a headful of whiskey and a bellyful 
of gin / Doctor


say  it  kill  me  but  he  don't  say  when  —  and  laughed  jaggedly.  There 
 was  a  mirror  running
along the top of the bar. She saw her reflection in it and stopped laughing 
abruptly.

Who is that woman?

One eye swollen nearly shut.

Who is that battered woman?

Nose  the  color  of  a  drunken  knight's  after  thirty  or  so  years  of  
tilting  at  ginmills,  and  puffed
to a grotesque size.

Who  is  that  battered woman who looks like the ones who drag themselves to a 
women's
shelter after they finally get frightened enough or brave enough or just plain 
mad enough to
leave the man who is hurting them, who has systematically hurt them week in and 
week out,
month in and month out, year in and year out?

Laddered scratch up one cheek.

Who is she, Kay-Bird?

One arm in a sling.

Who? Is it you? Can it be you?

'Here she is . . . Miss America,' she sang, wanting her voice to come out tough 
and cynical.
It  started  out  that  way  but  warbled  on  the  seventh  syllable  and  
cracked  on  the  eighth.  It  was
not  a  tough  voice.  It  was  a  scared  voice.  She  knew  it;  she  had  
been  scared  before  and  had
always gotten over it. She thought she would be a long time getting over this.

The  doctor  who  had  treated  her  in  one  of  the  little  cubicles  just  
off  Emergency  Admitting
at  Sisters  of  Mercy  half  a  mile  down  the  road  had  been  young  and  
not  bad-looking. Under
different  circumstances  she  might  have  idly  (or  not  so  idly)  
considered  trying  to  get  him
home  and  take  him  on  a  sexual  tour  of  the  world.  But  she  hadn't  
felt  in  the  least  bit  horny.
Pain wasn't conducive to horniness. Neither was fear.

His  name  was  Geffin,  and  she  didn't  care  for  the  fixed  way  he  was  
looking  at  her. He took
a  small  white  paper  cup  to  the  room's  sink,  half-filled  it  with  
water,  produced  a  pack  of
cigarettes from the drawer of his desk, and offered them to her.


She  took  one  and  he  lit  it  for  her.  He  had  to  chase  the  tip  for  
a  second  or  two  with
match because her hand was shaking. He tossed the match in a paper cup. Fssss.

'A wonderful habit,' he said. 'Right?'
'Oral fixation,' Kay replied.

ht e

He  nodded  and  then  there  was  silence.  He  kept  looking  at  her.  She  
got  the  feeling  he  was
expecting her to cry, and it made her mad because she felt she might just do 
that. She hated to
be emotionally preguessed, and most of all by a man.

'Boyfriend?' he asked at last.
'I'd rather not talk about it.'

'Uh-huh.' He smoked and looked at her.

'Didn't your mother ever tell you it was impolite to stare?'

She  wanted  it  to  come  out  hard-edged,  but  it  sounded  like  a  plea:  
Stop  looking  at  me,  I
know  how  I  look,  I  saw.  This thought was followed by another, one she 
suspected her friend
Beverly  must  have  had  more  than  once,  that  the  worst  of  the  beating 
 took  place  inside,  where
you  were  apt  to  suffer  something  that  might  be  called  interspiritual  
bleeding.  She  knew  what
she  looked  like,  yes.  Worse  still,  she  knew  what  she  felt  like.  She 
 felt  yellow. It was a dismal
feeling.

'I'll  say  this  just  once,'  Geffin  said.  His  voice  was  low  and  
pleasant.  'When  I  work  E.R.  —
my turn in the barrel, you might say  — I see maybe two dozen battered women a 
week. The
interns  treat  two  dozen  more.  So  look  —  there's  a  telephone  right  
here  on  the  desk.  It's  my
dime.  You  call  Sixth  Street,  give  them  your  name  and  address,  tell  
them  what  happened  and
who  did  it.  Then  you  hang  up  and  I'll  take  the  bottle  of  bourbon  
I  keep  over  there  in  the  file
cabinet  —  strictly  for  medicinal  purposes,  you  understand  —  and  we'll 
 have  a  drink  on  it.


Because  I  happen  to  think,  this  is  just  my  personal  opinion,  that  
the  only  lower  form  of  life
than a man who would beat up a woman is a rat with syphilis.'

Kay smiled wanly. 'I appreciate the offer,' she said, 'but I'll pass. For the 
time being.'

'Uh-huh,'  he  said.  'But  when  you  go  home  take  a  good  look  at  
yourself  in  the  mirror,  Ms.

McCall. Whoever it was, he jobbed you good.'
She did cry then. She couldn't help it.

Tom  Rogan  had  called  around  noon  of  the  day  after  she  had  seen  
Beverly  safely  off,
wanting  to  know  if  Kay  had  been  in  touch  with  his  wife.  He  sounded 
 calm,  reasonable,  not
the  least  upset.  Kay  told  him  she  hadn't  seen  Beverly  in  almost  two 
 weeks.  Tom  thanked  her
and hung up.

Around one the doorbell rang while she was writing in her study. She went to 
the door.
'Who is it?'

'Cragin's  Flowers,  ma'am,'  a  high  voice  said,  and  how  stupid  she  had 
 been  not  to  realize  it
had  been  Tom  doing  a  bad  falsetto,  how  stupid  she  had  been  to  
believe  that  Tom  had  given
up so easily, how stupid she had been to take the chain off before opening the 
door.

In  he  had  come,  and  she  had  gotten  just  this  far:  'You  get  out  of 
 h  —  ' before Tom's fist
came  flying  out  of  nowhere,  slamming  into  her  right  eye,  closing  it  
and  sending  a  bolt  of
incredible   agony   through   her   head.   She   had   gone   reeling   
backward   down   the   hallway,
clutching  at  things  to  try  and  stay  upright:  a  delicate  one-rose  
vase  that  had  gone  smashing  to
the tiles,  a  coat-tree that had tumbled over. She fell over her own feet as 
Tom closed the front
door behind him and walked toward her.

'Get out of here!' she had screamed at him.

'As  soon  as  you  tell  me  where  she  is,'  Tom  said,  walking  down  the  
hall  toward  her. She
was  dimly  aware  that  Tom  didn't  look  very  good  — well, actually,  
terrible  might have been a
better  word  —  and  she  felt  a  dim  but  ferocious  gladness  skyrocket  
through  her.  Whatever
Tom  had  done  to  Bev,  it  looked  as  if  Bev  had  given  it  back  in  
spades. It had been enough to
keep  him  off  his  feet  for  one  whole  day,  anyhow  —  and he still 
didn't look as if he belonged
anywhere but in a hospital.

But he also looked very mean, and very angry.

Kay  scrambled  to  her  feet  and  backed  away,  keeping  her  eyes on him as 
you might keep
your eyes on a wild animal that had escaped its cage.

'I told you I haven't seen her and that was the truth,' she said. 'Now get out 
of here before I
call the police.'

'You've  seen  her,'  Tom  said.  His  swollen  lips  were  trying to grin. She 
saw that his teeth had

a  strange  jagged  look.  Some  of  the  front  ones  had  been  broken.  'I  
call  up,  tell  you  I  don't
know  where  Bev  is.  You  say  you  haven't  seen  her  in  two  weeks.  
Never  a  single  question.
Never  a  discouraging  word,  even  though  I  know  damn  well  that  you  
hate  my  guts.  So  where
is she, you numb cunt? Tell me.'

Kay  turned  then  and  ran  for  the  end  of  the  hall,  wanting  to  get  
into  the  parlor,  rake  the
sliding  mahogany  doors  close'd  on  their  recessed  tracks,  and  turn  the 
 thumb-bolt.  She  got
there  ahead  of  him  —  he  was  limping  —  but  before  she  could  slam  
the  doors  shut  he  had
inserted  his  body  between.  He  gave  one  convulsive  lunge  and  pushed  
through.  She  turned  to
run  again;  he  caught  her  by  her  dress  and  yanked  her  so  hard  he  
tore  the  entire  back  of  it
straight down to her waist.  Your wife made that dress, you shit,  she thought 
incoherently, and
then she was twisted around.

Where is she?'

Kay  brought  her  hand  up  in  a  walloping  slap  that  rocked  his  head  
back  and  started  the cut
on  the  left  side  of  his  face  bleeding  again.  He  grabbed  her  hair  
and  pulled  her  head  forward
into his fist. It felt to her for a moment as if her nose had exploded. She 
screamed, inhaled to

scream again, and began to cough on her own blood. She was ni  utter terror 
now. She had not


known  there  could  be  so  much  terror  in  all  the  wide  world.  The  
crazy  son  of  a  bitch  was
going to kill her.

She  screamed,  she  screamed,  and  then  his  fist  looped  into  her  belly, 
 driving  the  air  out  of
her  and  she  could  only  gasp.  She  began  to  cough  and  gasp  at  the  
same  time  and  for  one
terrifying moment she thought she was going to choke.

'Where is she?'

Kay  shook  her  head.  'Haven't  .  .  .  seen  her,'  she  gasped.  'Police  
.  .  .  you'll  go  to  jail  .  .  .
asshole . . . '

He  jerked  her  to  her  feet  and  she  felt  something  give  in  her  
shoulder.  More  pain,  so  strong

it  was  sickening.  He  whirled  her  around,  still  holding  onto  her  arm, 
 and  now  he  twisted  her
arm  up  behind  her  and  she  bit  down  on  her  lower  lip,  promising  
herself  that  she  would  not
scream again.

'Where is she?'

Kay shook her head.

He  jerked  her  arm  up  again,  jerked  it  so  hard  that  she  heard  him  
grunt.  His  warm  breath
puffed  against  her  ear.  She  felt  her  closed  right  fist  strike  her  
own  left  shoulderblade and she
screamed again as that thing in her shoulder gave some more.

'Where is she?'
' . . . know . . . '
'What?'

'I don't KNOW!'

He  let  go  of  her  and  gave  her  a  push.  She  collapsed  to  the  floor, 
 sobbing,  snot  and  blood
running  out  of  her  nose.  There  was  an  almost  musical  crash,  and  
when  she  looked  around,
Tom  was  bending  over  her.  He  had  broken  the  top  off  another  vase,  
this  one  of  Waterford
crystal.  He  held  the  base.  The  jagged  neck  was  only  inches  from  her 
 face.  She  stared  at  it,
hypnotized.

'Let  me  tell  you  something,'  he  said,  the  words  coming  out  in  
little  pants  and  blows  of
warm  air,  'you're  going  to  tell  me  where  she  went  or  you're  going  
to  be  picking  your  face  up
off  the  floor.  You've  got  three  seconds,  maybe  less.  When  I'm  mad  
it  seems  like  time  goes  a
lot faster.'

My face,  she thought, and that was what finally caused her to give in . . . or 
cave in, if you
liked  that  better:  the  thought  of  this  monster  using  the  jagged  neck 
 of  the  Waterford  vase  to
cut her face apart.

'She went home,' Kay sobbed. 'Her home town. Derry. It's a place called Derry, 
in Maine.'
'How did she go?'

'She took a b-b-bus to Milwaukee. She was going to fly from there.'

'That  shitty  little  cooze!'  Tom  cried,  straightening  up.  He  walked 
around in a large, aimless
semicircle,  running  his  hands  through  his  hair  so  that  it  stood  up  
in  crazy  spikes  and  whorls.
'That  cunt,  that  cooze,  that nickelplated  crotch!'  He picked up a 
delicate wood sculpture of a
man  and  woman  making  love  —  she'd  had  it  since  she  was  twenty-two  
—  and threw in into
the  fireplace,  where  it  shattered  to  splinters.  He  came  face  to  face 
 with  himself  for  a  moment
in  the  mirror  over  the  fireplace  and  stood  wide-eyed, as if looking at 
a ghost. Then he whirled
on  her  again.  He  had  taken  something  from  the  pocket  of  the  
sportcoat  he  was  wearing,  and
she  saw  with  a  stupid  kind  of  wonder  that  it  was  a  paperback  
novel.  The  cover  was  almost
completely  black,  except  for  the  red-foil  letters  which  spelled  out  
the  title  and  a  picture  of
several young people standing on a high bluff over a river. The Black Rapids.

'Who's this fuck?'
'Huh? What?'


'Denbrough.  Denbrough.'  He  shook  the  book  impatiently  in  front  of  her 
 face,  then  suddenly
slapped  her  with  it.  Her  cheek  flared  with  pain  and  then  dull  red  
heat,  like  stove -coals. 'Who
is  he?'

She began to understand.

'They were friends. When they were children. They both grew up in Derry.'
He whacked her with the book again, this time from the other side.
'Please,' she sobbed. 'Please, Tom.'

He  pulled  an  Early  American  chair  with  spindly,  graceful  legs  over  
to  her,  turned  it  around,
and sat down on it. His jackolantern face looked down at her over the 
chairback.

'Listen  to  me,'  he  said.  'You  listen  to  your  old  uncle  Tommy.  Can  
you  do  that,  you  bra-
burning bitch?'

She  nodded.  She  could  taste  blood,  hot  and  coppery,  in  her  throat.  
Her  shoulder  was  on
fire.  She  prayed  it  was  only  dislocated  and  not  broken.  But  that  
was  not  the  worst.  My face,
he was going to cut up my face —

'If  you  call  the  police  and  tell  them  I  was  here,  I'll  deny  it.  
You  can't  prove  a  fucking  thing.
It's the maid's day off and we're all by our twosome. Of course, they might 
arrest me anyway,
anything's possible, right?'

She found herself nodding again, as if her head was on a string.

'Sure  it  is.  And  what  I'd  do  is  post  bail  and  come  right  back  
here.  They'd  find  your  tits  on
the  kitchen  table  and  your  eyes  in  the  fishbowl.  Do  you  understand  
me?  Are  you  getting  your
old uncle Tommy?'

Kay  burst  into  tears  again.  That  string  attached  to  her  head  was  
still  working;  it  bobbed  up

and down.
'Why?'

'What? I . . . I don't.

'Wake up, for God's sake! Why did she go back?'
'I don't know!' Kay nearly screamed.

He wiggled the broken vase at her.

'I don't know,' she said in a lower voice. 'Please. She didn't tell me Please 
don't hurt me.'
He tossed the vase in the wastebasket and stood up.

He left without looking back, head down, a big shambling bear of a man

She rushed after him and locked the door. She rushed into the kitchen and 
locked that door.
After  a  moment's  pause  she  had  limped  upstairs  (as  fast  as  her  
aching  belly  would  allow)  and
had  locked  the  french  doors  which  gave  on  the  upstairs  verandah  —  
it  was  not  beyond
possibility  that  he  might  decide  to  shinny  up  one  of  the  pillars  
and  come  in  again  that  way.
He    was hurt, but he was also insane.

She  went  for  the  telephone  for  the  first  time  and  had  no  more  than 
 dropped  her  hand  on  it
before remembering what he had said.

What I'd do is post bail and come right back here . . . your tits on the 
kitchen table and

your eyes in the fishbowl.

She jerked her hand off the phone.

She  went  into  the  bathroom  then  and  looked  at  her  dripping  tomato  
nose, her black eye.
She didn't weep; the shame and horror she felt were too deep for tears. Oh Bev, 
I did the best
I could, dear, she thought. But my face . . . he said he would cut up my face . 
. .

There  was  Darvon  and  Valium  in  the  medicine  cabinet.  She  debated  
between  them  and
finally  swallowed  one  of  each.  Then  she  went  to  Sisters  of  Mercy  
for  treatment  and  met  the
famous  Dr  Geffin,  who  right  now  was  the  only  man  she  could  think  
of  whom  she  would  not
be perfectly happy to see wiped off the face of the earth.

And from there home again, home again, jiggety-jog.


She  went  to  her  bedroom  window  and  looked  out.  The  sun  was  low  on  
the  horizon  now.

On the East Coast it would be late twilight — just going on seven o'clock in 
Maine.

You  can  decide  what  to  do  about  the  cops  later.  The  important  thing 
 now  is  to  warn
Beverly.

It would be a hell of a lot easier, Kay thought, if you had told me where you 
were staying,
Beverly my love. I suppose you didn't know yourself.

Although  she  had  quit  smoking  two  years  before,  she  kept  a  pack  of  
Pall  Malls  in  the
drawer  of  her  desk  for  emergencies.  She  shot  one  out  of  the  pack,  
lit  up,  grimaced.  She  had
last smoked from this pack around December of 1982, and this baby was staler 
than the ERA
in  the  Illinois  state  Senate.  She  smoked  it  anyway,  one  eye  
half-lidded against the smoke, the
other just half-lidded, period. Thanks to Tom Rogan.

Using  her  left  hand  laboriously  —  the  son  of  a  bitch  had  dislocated 
 her  good  arm  — she
dialed  Maine  information  and  asked  for  the  name  and  number  of  every  
hotel  and  motel  in
Derry.

'Ma'am, that's going to take awhile,' the directory-assistance operator said 
dubiously.

'It's  going  to  take  even  longer  than  that,  sister,'  Kay  said.  'I'm  
going  to  have  to  write  with
my stupid hand. My good one's on vacation.'

'It's not customary for — '

'Listen  to  me,'  Kay  said,  not  unkindly.  'I'm  calling  you  from  
Chicago,  and  I'm  trying  to
reach  a  woman-friend  of  mine  who  has  just  left  her  husband  and  gone 
 back  to  Derry,  where
she  grew  up.  Her  husband  knows  where  she  went.  He  got  the  
information  out  of  me  by
beating the living shit out of me. This man is a psycho. She needs to know he's 
coming.'

There was a long pause, and then the directory-assistance operator said in a 
decidedly more
human voice, 'I think the number you really need is the Derry Police 
Department.'

'Fine.  I'll  take  that,  too.  But  she  has  to  be  warned,'  Kay  said.  
'And  .  .  .  '  She  thought  of
Tom's  cut  cheeks,  the  knot  on  his  forehead,  the  one  on  his  temple , 
 his  limp,  his  hideously
swelled lips. 'And if she knows he's coming, that may be enough.'

There was another long pause.
'You there, sis?' Kay asked.

'Arlington  Motor  Lodge,'  the  operator  said,  '643-8146.  Bassey  Park  
Inn,  648-4083. The
Bunyan Motor Court — '

'Slow  down  a  little,  okay?'  she  asked,  writing  furiously.  She  looked  
for  an  ashtray,  didn't
see one, and mashed the Pall Mall out on the desk blotter. 'Okay, go on.'

The Clarendon Inn — '

4

She  got  half-lucky  on  her  fifth  call.  Beverly  Rogan  was  registered  
at  the  Derry  Town  House.
She  was  only  half-lucky  because  Beverly  was  out.  She  left  her  name  
and  number  and  a
message that Beverly should call her the instant she came back, no matter how 
late it was.

The desk clerk repeated  the  message.  Kay  went  upstairs  and  took  another 
 Valium.  She  lay
down  and  waited  for  sleep.  Sleep  didn't  come.   I'm  sorry,  Bev,  she  
thought,  looking  into  the
dark, floating on the dope.  What he said about my face . . . I just couldn't 
stand that. Call
soon, Bev. Please call soon. And watch out for the crazy son of a bitch you 
married.

5


The  crazy  son  of  a  bitch  Bev  had  married  did  better  on  connections  
than  Beverly  had  the  day
before  because  he  left  from  O'Hare,  the  hub  of  commercial aviation  in 
 the  continental United
States.  During  the  flight  he  read  and  reread  the  brief  note  on  the  
author  at  the  end  of  The
Black Rapids.  It  said  that  William  Denbrough  was  a  native  of  New  
England  and  the  author  of
three  other  novels  (which  were  also  available,  the  note  added  
helpfully,  in  Signet  paperback
editions).  He  and  his  wife,  the  actress  Audra  Phillips,  lived  in  
California.  He  was  currently  at
work  on  a  new  novel.  Noticing  that  the  paperback  of  The Black Rapids  
had been issued in
1976, Tom supposed the guy had written some of the other novels since then.

Audra Phillips . . . he had seen her in the movies, hadn't he? He rarely 
noticed actresses  —
Tom's idea of a good flick was a crime story, a chase story, or a monster 
picture  — but if this
babe  was  the  one  he  was  thinking  of,  he  had  noticed  her  especially  
because  she  looked  a  lot
like Beverly: long red hair, green eyes, tits that wouldn't quit.

He  sat  up  a  little  straighter  in  his  seat,  tapping  the  paperback  
against  his  leg,  trying  to
ignore  the  ache  in  his  head  and  in  his  mouth.  Yes,  he  was  sure.  
Audra  Phillips  was  the
redhead with the good tits. He had seen her in a Clint Eastwood movie, and then 
about a year
later in a horror flick called  Graveyard Moon.  Beverly had gone with him to 
see that one, and
coming  out  of  the  theater,  he  had  mentioned  his  idea  that  the  
actress  looked  a  lot  like  her.  'I
don't  think  so,'  Bev  had  said.  'I'm  taller  and  she's  prettier.  Her  
hair's  a  darker  red,  too.'  That
was all. He hadn't thought of it again until now.

He and his wife, the actress Audra Phillips . . .

Tom  had  some  dim  understanding  of  psychology;  he  had  used  it  to  
manipulate his wife all
the  years  of  their  marriage.  And  now  a  nagging  unpleasantness  began  
to  nag  at  him,  more
feeling  than  thought.  It  centered  on  the  fact  that  Bev  and  this  
Denbrough  had  played  together
as  kids  and  that  Denbrough  had  married  a  woman  who,  in  spite  of  
what  Beverly  said,  looked
amazingly like Tom Rogan's wife.

What  sort  of  games  had  Denbrough  and  Beverly  played  when  they  were  
kids?  Post-office?

Spin-the-bottle?
Other games?

Tom sat in his seat and tapped the book against his leg and felt his temples 
begin to throb.

When  he  arrived  at  Bangor  International  Airport,  and  canvassed  the  
rental-car booths, the
girls  —  some  dressed  in  yellow,  some  in  red,  some  in  Irish  green  — 
 looked  at  his  blasted
dangerous  face  nervously  and  told  him  (more  nervously  still)  that  
they  had  no  cars  to  rent,  so
sorry.

Tom  went  to  the  newsstand  and  got  a  Bangor  paper.  He  turned  to  the 
 want-ads,  oblivious
to  the  looks  he  was  getting  from  people  passing  by,  and  isolated  
three  likelies.  He  hit  paydirt
on his second call.

'Paper says you've got a '76 LTD wagon. Fourteen hundred bucks.'
'Right, sure.'

'I  tell  you  what,'  Tom  said,  touching  the  wallet in his jacket pocket. 
It was fat with cash  —

six  thousand  dollars.  'You  bring  it  out  to  the  airport  and  we'll do 
the deal right here. You give
me the car and a bill of sale and your pink-slip.

I'll  give  you  cash  money.'  The  fellow  with  the  LTD  for  sale  paused  
and  then  said,  'I'd  have

to take my plates off.'
'Sure, fine.'

'How will I know you, Mr — ?'

'Mr  Barr,'  Tom  said.  He  was  looking  at  a  sign  across  the  terminal  
lobby  that  said  BAR
HARBOUR  AIRLINES  GIVES YOU NEW ENGLAND   —  AND  THE  WORLD! 'I'll be  
standing by the far

door.  You'll  know  me  because  my  face  doesn't  look  so  hot.  My  wife  
and  I  went  roller-skating
yesterday and I took one hell of a fall. Things could be worse, I guess. I 
didn't break anything
but     my face.'


'Gee, I'm sorry to hear that, Mr Barr.'

'I'll mend. You just get the car out here, my good buddy.'

He hung up, walked across to the door, and stepped out into the warm fragrant 
May night.

The  guy  with  the  LTD  showed  up  ten  minutes  later  driving  out  of  
the  late-spring dusk. He
was  only  a  kid.  They  did  the  deal;  the  kid  scribbled  him  a  bill  
of  sale  which  Tom  stuffed
indifferently  into  his  overcoat  pocket.  He  stood  there  and  watched  
the  kid  take  off  the  LTD's
Maine plates.

'Give you an extra three bucks for the screwdriver,' Tom said when he was done.

The  kid  looked  at  him  thoughtfully  for  a  moment,  shrugged,  handed  
the  screwdriver  over,
and took the three ones Tom was holding out.  None of my business,  the shrug 
said, and Tom
thought: How  right  you  are,  my  good  little  buddy.  Tom saw him into a 
cab, then got behind
the wheel of the Ford.

It  was  a  piece  of  shit:  transmission  whiny,  universal  groany,  body  
rattly,  brakes  slushy.
None of it mattered. He drove around to the long-term parking lot, took a 
ticket, and drove in.
He  parked  next  to  a  Subaru  that  looked  as  if  it  had  been  there  
for  awhile.  He  used  the  kid's
screwdriver  to  remove  the  Subaru's  plates  and  put  them  on  the  LTD.  
He  hummed  as  he
worked.

By  10:00  P.M.  he  was  driving  east  on  Route  2,  a  Maine roadmap open 
on the seat beside
him.  He  had  discovered  that  the  LTD's  radio  didn't  work,  so  he  
drove  in  silence.  That  was  all
right.  He  had  plenty  to  think  about.  All  the  wonderful  things  he  
was  going  to  do  to  Beverly
when he caught up with her, for instance.

He was sure in his heart, quite sure, that Beverly was close by.

And smoking.

Oh my dear girl, you fucked with the wrong man when you fucked with Tom Rogan. 
And
the question is this — what, exactly, are we to do with you?

The  Ford  bulled  its  way  through  the  night,  chasing  its  high  beams,  
and  by  the  time  Tom

got  to  Newport,  he  knew.  He  found  a  drugs-and-sundries shop on the main 
drag that was still
open.  He  went  inside  and  bought  a  carton  of  Camels.  The  proprietor  
wished  him  a  good
evening. Tom wished him the same.

He  tossed  the  carton  on  the  seat  and  got  moving  again.  He  drove  
slowly  on  up  Route  7,
hunting for his turnoff. Here it was — Route 3, with a sign which read HAVEN 21 
DERRY 15.

He  made  the  turn  and  got  the  Ford  rolling faster. He glanced at the 
carton of cigarettes and
smiled  a  little.  In  the  green  glow  of  the  dashlights,  his  cut  and  
lumpy  face  looked  strange,
ghoulish.

Got  some  cigarettes  for  you,  Bevvie,  Tom thought as the wagon ran between 
stands of pine
and spruce, heading toward Derry at a little better than sixty.  Oh my yes. A 
whole carton. Just
for you. And when I see you, dear, I'm going to make you eat every fucking one. 
And if this
guy  Denbrough  needs  some  education,  we  can  arrange  that,  too.  No  
problem,  Bevvie. No
problem at all.

For  the  first  time  since  the  dirty  bitch  had  bushwhacked  him  and  
run  out,  Tom  began  to
feel good.

6

Audra   Denbrough   flew   first   class   to   Maine   in   a   British   
Airways   DC-10.   She   had   left
Heathrow  at  ten  minutes  of  six  that  aft ernoon  and  had  been  chasing  
the  sun  ever  since.  The
sun   was   winning   —   had   won,   in   fact  —   but  that  didn't  really 
 matter.  By  a  stroke  of
providential  luck  she  had  discovered  that  British  Airways  flight  23,  
London  to  Los  Angeles,
made one refueling stop . . . at Bangor International Airport.


The day had been a crazy nightmare. Freddie Firestone, the producer of  Attic 
Room,  had of
course  wanted  Bill  first  thing.  There  had  been  some  kind  of  ballsup  
about  the  stuntwoman
who  was  supposed  to  fall  down  a  flight  of  stairs  for  Audra.  It  
seemed  that  stuntpeople  had  a
union  too,  and  this  woman  had  fulfilled  her  quota  of  stunts  for  the 
 week,  or  some  silly  thing.
The   union   was   demanding   that   Freddie   either   sign   an   
extension-of-salary  waiver  or  hire
another woman to do  the stunt. The problem was there was no other woman close 
enough to
Audra's  body-type available. Freddie told the union boss that they would have 
to get a man to
do  the  stunt,  then,  wouldn't  they?  It  wasn't  as  if  the  fall  had  to 
 be  taken  in  bra  and  panties.
They  had  the  auburn-haired  wig,  and  the  wardrobe  woman  could  fit  the 
 fellow  up  with  falsies
and hip-padding. Even some arse-pads, if that was necessary.

Can't  be  done,  mate,  the  union  boss  said.  Against  the  union  charter  
to  have  a  man  step  in
for a woman. Sexual discrimination.

In  the  movie  business  Freddie's  temper  was  fabled,  and  at  that  point 
 he  had  lost  it.  He  told
the  union  boss,  a  fat  man  whose  BO  was  almost  paralyzing,  to  bugger 
 himself.  The  union
boss told Freddie he better watch his gob or there would be no more stunts on 
the set of  Attic
Room  at  all.  Then  he  had  rubbed  his  thumb  and  forefinger  together  
in  a  baksheesh  gesture
that  had  driven  Freddie  crazy.  The  union  boss  was  big  but  soft;  
Freddie,  who  still  played
football every chance he got and who had once scored a century at cricket, was 
big and hard.

He threw the union boss out, went back into his office to meditate, and then 
came out again
twenty  minutes  later  hollering  for  Bill.  He  wanted  the  entire  scene  
rewritten  so  that  the  fall
could be scrubbed. Audra had to tell Freddie that Bill was no longer in 
England.

'What?  Freddie  said.  His  mouth  hung  open.  He  was  looking  at  Audra  
as  if  he  believed  she

had gone mad. 'What are you telling me?'

'He's been called back to the States — that's what I'm telling you.'

Freddie made as if to grab her and Audra shrank back, a bit afraid. Freddie 
looked down at
his hands, then put them in his pockets and only looked at her.

'I'm sorry, Freddie,' she said in a small voice. 'Really.'

She got up and poured herself a cup of coffee from the Silex on Freddie's 
hotplate, noticing
that  her  hands  were  trembling  slightly.  As  she  sat  down  she  heard  
Freddie's  amplified  voice
over  the  studio  loudspeakers,  telling  everyone  to  go  home  or  to  the  
pub;  the  day's  shooting
was off. Audra winced. There went a minimum of ten thousand pounds, right down 
the bog.

Freddie  turned  off  the  studio  intercom,  got  up,  poured  his  own  cup  
of  coffee.  He  sat  down
again and offered her his pack of Silk Cut cigarettes.

Audra shook her head.

Freddie took one, lit it, and squinted at her through the smoke. 'This is 
serious, isn't it?'
'Yes,' Audra said, keeping her composure as best she could.

'What's happened?'

And   because   she   genuinely   liked   Freddie   and   genuinely   trusted   
him,   Audra   told   him
everything  she  knew.  Freddie  listened  intently,  gravely.  It  didn't  
take  long  to  tell;  doors  were
still slamming and engines starting in the parking lot outside when she 
finished.

Freddie  was  silent  for  some  time,  looking  out  his  window.  Then  he  
swung  back  to  her.
'He's had a nervous breakdown of some sort.'

Audra  shook  her  head.  'No.  It  wasn't  like  that.  He  wasn't  like  
that.'  She  swallowed  and
added, 'Maybe you had to be there.'

Freddie  smiled  crookedly.  'You  must  realize  that  grown  men  rarely  
feel  compelled  to  honor
promises  they  made  as  little  boys.  And  you've  read  Bill's  work;  you  
know  how  much  of  it  is
about  childhood,  and  it's  very  good  stuff  indeed.  Very  much  on  the  
nail.  The  idea  that  he's
forgotten everything that ever happened to him back then is absurd.'

'The scars on his hands,' Audra said. 'They were never there. Not until this 
morning.'

'Bollocks! You just didn't notice them until this morning.'


She shrugged helplessly. 'I'd've noticed.'
She could see he didn't believe that, either.

'What's  to  do,  then?'  Freddie  asked  her,  and  she  could  only  shake  
her  head.  Freddie  lit
another  cigarette  from  the  smoldering  end  of  the  first.  'I  can  
square  it  with  the  union  boss,'  he
said.  'Not  myself,  maybe;  right  now  he'd  see  me  in  hell  before  
giving  me  another  stunt.  I'll
send  Teddy  Rowland  round  to  his  office.  Teddy's  a  pouf,  but  he  
could  talk  the  birds  down
from  the  trees  But what happens after? We've got four weeks of shooting 
left,  and here's your
husband somewhere in Massachusetts — '

'Maine — '

He waved a hand. 'Wherever. And how much good are you going to be
without him?'

'I — '

He  leaned  forward.  'I  like  you,  Audra.  I  genuinely  do.  And  I  like  
Bill  —  even  in  spite of
this mess. We can make do, I guess. If the script needs cobbling up, I can 
cobble it. I've done
my share of that sort of shoemaking in my time, Christ knows . . . If he 
doesn't like the way it
turns  out,  he'll  have  no  one  but  himself  to  blame.  I  can do without 
Bill, but I can't do without
you. I can't have you running off to the States after your man, and I've got to 
have you putting
out at full power. Can you do that?'

'I don't know.'

'Nor  do  I.  But  I  want  you  to  think  about  something.  We  can  keep  
things  quiet  for  awhile,
maybe  for  the  rest  of  the  shoot,  if  you'll  stand  up  like  a  trouper 
 and  do  your  job.  But  if  you
take  off,  it  can't  be  kept  quiet.  I  can  be  pissy,  but  I'm  not  
vindictive  by  nature  and  I'm  not
going  to  tell  you  that  if  you  take off  I'll  see  that  you  never  
work  in  the  business  again.  But
you  should  know  that  if  you  get  a  reputation  for  temperament,  you  
might  end  up  stuck  with
just that. I'm talking to you like a Dutch uncle, I know. Do you resent it?'

'No,'  she  said  listlessly. In truth, she didn't care much one way or the 
other. Bill was all she
could  think  of.  Freddie  was  a  nice  enough  man,  but  Freddie  didn't  
understand;  in  the  last
analysis,  nice  man  or  not,  all  he  could  think  of  was  what  this  was 
 going  to  do  to  his  picture.
He had not seen the look in Bill's eyes . . . or heard him stutter.

'Good.'  He  stood  up.  'Come  on  over  to  the  Hare  and  Hounds  with  me. 
 We  can  both  use  a
drink.'

She shook her head. 'A drink's the last thing I need. I'm going home and think 
this out.'
'I'll call for the car,' he said.

'No. I'll take the train.'

He looked at her fixedly, one hand on the telephone. 'I believe you mean to go 
after him,'
Freddie  said,  'and  I'm  telling  you  that  it's  a  serious  mistake,  dear 
 girl.  He's  got  a  bee in his
bonnet, but at bottom he's steady enough. He'll shake it, and when he does 
he'll come back. If
he'd wanted you along, he would have said so.'

'I  haven't  decided  anything,'  she  said,  knowing  that  she  had  in  fact 
 decided  everything;  had
decided  even  before  the  car  picked  her  up  that  morning.  'Have  a  
care,  love,'  Freddie  said.
'Don't  do  something  you'll  regret  later.'  She  felt  the  force  of  his  
personality  beating  on  her,
demanding  that  she  give  in,  make  the  promise,  do  her  job,  wait  
passively  for  Bill  to  come
back . . . or to disappear again into that hole of the past from which he had 
come.

She went to him and kissed him lightly on the cheek. 'I'll see you, Freddie.' 
She went home
and  called  British  Airways.  She  told  the  clerk  she  might  be  
interested  in  reaching  a  small
Maine  city  called  Derry  if  it  was  at  all  possible.  There  had  been  
silence  while  the  woman
consulted  her  computer  terminal  .  .  .  and  then  the  news,  like  a  
sign  from  heaven,  that  BA  #23
made    a stop in Bangor, which was less than fifty miles away.

'Shall I book the flight for you, ma'am?'


Audra  closed  her  eyes  and  saw  Freddie's  craggy,  mostly  kind,  very  
earnest  face,  heard  him
saying: Have a care, love. Don't do something you'll regret later.

Freddie  didn't  want  her  to  go; Bill didn't want her to go; so why was her 
heart screaming at
her that she had to go? She closed her eyes Jesus, I feel so fucked up —

'Ma'am? Are you still holding the wire?'

'Book it,' Audra said, then hesitated.  Have a care love . . . .  Maybe she 
should sleep on it;
get  some  distance  between  herself  and  the  craziness.  She  began  to  
rummage  in  her  purse  for
her  American  Express  card.  'For  tomorrow  First  class  if  you  have  it, 
 but  I'll  take  anything.'
And if I change my mind I can cancel. Probably will. I'll wake up sane and 
everything will be
clear.

But  nothing  had  been  clear  this  morning,  and  her  heart  clamored  just 
 as  loudly  for  her  to
go. Her sleep had been a crazy tapestry of nightmares. So she had called 
Freddie, not because
she wanted  to  but  because  she  felt  she  owed  him  that.  She  had  not  
gotten  far   —  she was
trying,  in  some  stumbling  way,  to  tell  him  how  much  she  felt  Bill  
might  need  her  —  when
there  was  a  soft  click  at  Freddie's  end.  He  had  hung  up  without  
saying  a  word  after  his  init ial
hello.

But in a way, Audra thought, that soft click said everything that needed to be 
said.

7

The  plane  landed  at  Bangor  at  7:09,  EDT.  Audra  was  the  only  
passenger  to  deplane,  and  the
others  looked  at  her  with  a  kind  of  thoughtful  curiosity,  probably  
wondering  why  anyone
would  choose  to  get  off  here,  in  this  godforsaken  little  place.  
Audra  thought  of  telling  them
I'm looking for my husband, that's why. He came back to a little town near here 
because one
of his boyhood chums called him and reminded him of a promise he couldn't quite 
remember.
The call also reminded him that he hadn't thought of his dead brother in over 
twenty years.
Oh yes: it also brought back his stutter . . . and some funny white scars on 
the palms of his
hands.

And  then,  she  thought,  the  customs  agent  standing  by  in  the  jetway  
would  whistle  up  the
men in the white coats.

She  collected  her  single  piece  of  luggage  —  it  looked  very  lonely  
riding  the  carousel  all  by
itself —  and  approached  the  rental-car  booths  as  Tom  Rogan Would about 
an hour later. Her
luck was better than his would be; National Car Rental had a Datsun.

The girl filled out the form and Audra signed it.

'I thought it was you,' the girl said, and then, timidly: 'Might I please have 
your autograph?'

Audra  gave  it,  writing  her  name  on  the  back  of  a  rental  form,  and  
thought:  Enjoy it while
you can, girl. If Freddie Firestone is right, it won't be worth doodley-squat 
five years from
now.

With  some  amusement  she  realized  that,  after  only  fifteen  minutes  
back  in  the  States,  she
had begun to think like an American again.

She  got  a  roadmap,  and  the  girl,  so  star-struck she could barely talk, 
managed to trace out
her best route to Derry.

Ten  minutes  later  Audra  was  on  the  road,  reminding  herself  at every 
intersection that if she

forgot and began driving on the left, they would be scrubbing her off the 
asphalt.

And  as  she  drove,  she  realized  that  she  was  more  frightened  than  
she  had  ever  been  in  her
life.

8


By  one  of  those  odd  quirks  of  fate  or  coincidence  which  sometimes  
obtain  (and  which,  in
truth,  obtained  more  frequently  in  Derry),  Tom  had  taken  a  room  at  
the  Koala  Inn  on  Outer
Jackson  Street  and  Audra  had  taken  a  room  at  the  Holiday  Inn;  the  
two  motels  were  side  by
side,  their  parking  lots  divided  only  by  a  raised  concrete  sidewalk.  
And  as  it  so  happened,
Audra's  rented  Datsun  and  Tom's  purchased  LTD  wagon  were  parked  
nose-to-nose, separated
only  by  that  walkway.  Both  slept  now,  Audra  quietly  on  her  side,  
Tom  Rogan  on  his  back,
snoring so heavily that his swollen lips flapped.

9

Henry  spent  that  day  hiding  —  hiding  in  the  puckies  beside  Route  9. 
 Sometimes  he  slept.
Sometimes  he  lay  watching  police  cruisers  slide  by  like  hunting  dogs. 
 While  the  Losers  ate
lunch, Henry listened to voices from the moon.

And when dark fell, he went out to the verge of the road and stuck out his 
thumb.
After awhile, some fool came along and picked him up.


'A bird came down the Walk —
He did not know I saw —

He bit an Angleworm in halves
And ate the fellow, raw'

— Emily Dickinson,
'A Bird Came Down the Walk


March 17th, 1985

The fire at the Black Spot happened in the late fall of 1930. So far as I am 
able to determine,
that fire  —  the one my father barely escaped  —  ended the cycle of murder 
and disappearance
which  happened  in  the  years  1929-30,  just  as  the  explosion  at  the  
Ironworks  ended  a  cycle
some  twenty-five  years  before.  It  is  as  if  a  monstrous  sacrifice  is  
needed  at  the  end  of  the
cycle to quiet whatever terrible force it is which  works here . . . to send It 
to sleep for another
quarter-century or so.

But  if  such  a  sacrifice  is  needed  to  end  each  cycle,  it  seems  that 
 some  similar  event  is

needed to set each cycle in motion.

Which brings me to the Bradley Gang.

Their  execution  took  place  at  the  three-way intersection of Canal, Main, 
and Kansas  — not
far,  in  fact,  from  the  place  shown  in  the  picture  which  began  to  
move  for  Bill  and  Richie  one
day  in  June  of  1958  —  some  thirteen  months  before  the  fire  at  the  
Black  Spot,  in  October of
1929 . . . not long before the stock-market crash.

As  with  the  fire  at  the  Black  Spot,  many  Derry  residents  affect  not 
 to  remember  what
happened  that  day.  Or  they  were  out  of  town,  visiting  relatives.  Or  
they  were  napping  that
afternoon  and  never  found  out  what  had  happened  until  they  heard  it  
on  the  radio  news  that
night. Or they will simply look you full in the face and lie to you.

The  police  logs  for  that  day  indicate  that  Chief  Sullivan  was  not  
even  in  town  (Sure  I
remember,  Aloysius  Nell  told  me  from  a  chair  on  the  sun-terrace  of  
the  Paulson  Nursing
Home in Bangor. That was my first year on the force, and I ought to remember. 
He was off in
western Maine, bird-hunting. They'd been sheeted and carried off by the time he 
got back.
Madder  than  a  wet  hen  was  Jim  Sullivan),   but  a  picture  in  a  
reference  book  on  gangsters
called   Bloodletters   and   Badmen  shows  a  grinning  man  standing  beside 
 the  bullet-riddled
corpse  of  Al  Bradley  in  the  morgue,  and  if  that  man  is  not  Chief  
Sullivan,  it  is  surely  his twin
brother.

It was from Mr Keene that I finally got what I believe to be the true version 
of the story  —
Norbert Keene, who was the proprietor of the Center Street Drug Store from 1925 
until 1975.
He  talked  to  me  willingly  enough,  but,  like  Betty  Ripsom's  father,  
he  made  me  turn  off  my
tape-recorder  before  he  would  really  unwind  the  tale   —  not  that  it  
mattered;  I  can  hear  his
papery voice yet — another a capella singer in the damned choir that is this 
town.

'No reason not to tell you,' he said. 'No one will print it, and no one would 
believe it even if
they  did.'  He  offered  me  an  old-fashioned apothecary jar. 'Licorice whip? 
As I remember, you
were always partial to the red ones, Mikey.'

I took one. 'Was Chief Sullivan there that day?'

Mr  Keene  laughed  and  took  a  licorice  whip  for  himself.  'You  wondered 
 about  that,  did
you?'

'I  wondered,'  I  agreed,  chewing  a  piece  of  the  red  licorice.  I  
hadn't  had  one  since  I  was  a

kid,  shoving  my  pennies  across  the  counter  to  a  much  younger  and  
sprier Mr Keene. It tasted
just as fine as it had back then.

'You're  too  young  to  remember  when  Bobby  Thomson  hit  his  home  run  
for  the  Giants  in

the  play-off game in 1951,' Mr Keene said. 'You wouldn't have been but four 
years old. Well!
They  ran  an  article about that game in the newspaper a few years after, and 
it seemed like just
about  a  million  folks  from  New  York  claimed  they  were  there  in  the  
ballpark  that  day.'  Mr
Keene  gummed  his  licorice  whip  and  a  little  dark  drool  ran  down  
from  the  corner  of  his
mouth.   He   wiped   it   off   fastidiously   with   his   handkerchief.   We 
  were   sitting   in   the   office
behind  the  drugstore,  because  although  Norbert  Keene  was  eighty-five  
and  retired  ten  years,
he still did the books for his grandson.


'Just  the  opposite  when  it  come s  to  the  Bradley  Gang!'  Keene  
exclaimed.  He  was  smiling,
but  it  was  not  a  pleasant  smile  —  it  was  cynical,  coldly  
reminiscent.  'There  was  maybe
twenty  thousand  people  who  lived  in  downtown  Derry  back  then.  Main  
Street  and  Canal
Street  had  both  been  paved  for four years, but Kansas Street was still 
dirt. Raised dust in the
summer  and  turned  into  a  boghole  every  March  and  November.  They  used 
 to  oil  Up-Mile
Hill  every  June  and  every  Fourth  of  July  the  Mayor  would  talk  about 
 how  they  were  going  to
pave Kansas Street, but it never happened until 1942. It . . . but what was I 
saying?'

'Twenty thousand people who lived right downtown,' I prompted.

'Ayuh.  Well,  of  those  twenty  thousand,  there's  probably  half  that  
have  passed  away  since,
maybe even more  —  fifty  years  is  a  long  time.  And  people  have  a  
funny  way  of  dying  young
in  Derry.  Perhaps  it  is  the  air.  But  of  those  left,  I  don't  think  
you'd  find  more  than  a  dozen
who'd  say  they  were  in  town  the  day  the  Bradley  Gang  went  to  
Tophet.  Butch  Rowden  over
at  the  meat  market  would  fess  up  to  it,  I  guess   —  he keeps a 
picture of one of the cars they
had  up  on  the  wall  where  he  cuts  meat.  Looking  at  that  picture  
you'd  hardly  know  it  was  a
car.  Charlotte  Littlefield  would  tell  you  a  thing  or  two,  if  you  
could  get  on  her good side; she
teaches  over  to  the  high  school,  and  although  I  reckon  she  must  not 
 have  been  more  than  ten
or  twelve  at  the  tune  I  bet  she remembers  plenty.  Carl  Snow  .  .  .  
Aubrey  Stacey  .  .  .  Eben
Stampnell  .  .  .  and  that  old  geezer  who  paints  those  funny  pictures 
 and  drinks  all  night  at
Wally's — Pickman, I think his name is — they'd remember. They were all there . 
. . '

He  trailed  off  vaguely,  looking  at  the  licorice  whip  in  his  hand.  I 
 thought  of  prodding  him
and decided not to.

At  last  he  said,  'Most  of  the  others  would  lie  about  it,  the  way  
people  lied  and  said  they

were  there  when  Bobby  Thomson  hit  his  homer,  that's  all  I  mean.  But 
 people  lied  about  being
at  that  ballgame  because  they  wished  they  had  been  there.  People  
would  lie  to  you  about
being in Derry that day because they wish they hadn't been. Do you understand 
me, sonny?'

I nodded.

'You  sure  you  want  to  hear  the  rest  of  this?'  Mr  Keene  asked  me.  
'You're  looking  a  bit
peaked, Mr Mikey.'

'I don't,' I said, 'but I think I better, all the same.'

'Okay,'   Mr   Keene   said   mildly.   It   was   my   day   for   memories;   
as   he   offered   me   the
apothecary  jar  with  the  licorice  whips  in  it,  I  suddenly  remembered  
a  radio  program  my
mother  and  dad  used  to  listen  to  when  I  was  just  a  little  kid:  Mr 
 Keene,  Tracer  of  Lost
Persons.

'Sheriff  was  there  that  day,  all  right.  He  was  s'posed  to  go  
bird-hunting, but he changed his
mind  damn  quick  when  Lal  Machen  came  in  and  told  nun  that  he  was  
expecting  Al  Bradley
that very afternoon.'

'How did Machen know that?' I asked.

'Well,  that's  an  instructive  tale  in  itself,'  Mr  Keene  said,  and  the 
 cynical  smile  creased  his
face  again.  'Bradley  wasn't  never  Public  Enemy  Number  One  on  the  
FBI's  hit  parade,  but  they
had wanted him  —  since 1928 or so. To show they could cut the mustard, I 
guess. Al Bradley
and  his  brother  George  hit  six  or  seven  banks  across  the  Midwest  
and  then  kidnapped  a
banker  for  ransom.  The  ransom  was  paid  —  thirty thousand dollars, a big 
sum for those days

— but they killed the banker anyway.

'By  then  the  Midwest  had  gotten  a  little  toasty  for  the  gangs  that  
ran  there,  so  Al  and
George  and  their  litter  of  ratlings  run  northeast,  up  this  way.  They 
 rented  themselves  a  big
farmhouse just over the town line in Newport, not far from where the Rhulin 
Farms are today.

That  was  in  the  dog-days of '29, maybe July, maybe August, maybe even early 
September .

.  .  I  don't  know  for  sure  just  when.  There  were  eight  of  em  —  Al 
 Bradley,  George  Bradley,
Joe   Conklin   and   his   brother   Cal,   an   Irishman   named   Arthur   
Malloy   who   was   called
"Creeping  Jesus  Malloy"  because  he  was  nearsighted  but  wouldn't  put  
on  his  specs  unless  he


absolutely  had  to,  and  Patrick  Caudy,  a  young  fellow  from  Chicago  
who  was  said  to  be  kill-
crazy  but  as  handsome  as  Adonis.  There  were  also  two  women  with  
them:  Kitty  Donahue,
George   Bradley's   common-law   wife,   and   Marie   Hauser,   who   
belonged   to   Caudy   but
sometimes got passed around, according to the stories we all heard later.

'They  made  one  bad  assumption  when  they  got  up  here,  sonny  —  they  
got  the  idea  they
were so far away from Indiana that they were safe.

'They laid low for awhile, and then got bored and decided they wanted to go 
hunting. They
had  plenty  of  firepower  but  they  were  a  bit  low  on  ammunition.  So  
they  all  came  into Derry
on  the  seventh  of  October  in  two  cars.  Patrick  Gaudy  took  the  women 
 around  shopping  while
the  other  men  went  into  Machen's  Sporting  Goods.  Kitty  Donahue  bought 
 a  dress  in  Freese's,
and she died in it two days later.

'Lal Machen waited on the  men himself. He died in 1959. Too fat, he was. 
Always too fat.
But  there  wasn't  nothing  wrong  with  his  eyes,  and  he  knew  it  was  
Al  Bradley  the  minute  he
walked  in,  he  said.  He  thought  he  recognized  some  of  the  others,  
but  he  wasn't  sure  of  Malloy
until he put on his specs to look at a display of knives in a glass case.

'Al Bradley walked up to him and said, "We'd like to buy some ammunition."
'"Well," Lal Machen says, "you come to the right place."

'Bradley handed him a paper and Lal read it over. The paper has been lost, at 
least so far as
I  know,  but  Lal  said  it  would  have  turned  your  blood  cold.  They  
wanted  five  hundred  rounds
of   .38-caliber  ammunition,  eight  hundred  rounds  of  .45-caliber,  sixty  
rounds  of  .50-caliber,
which  they  don't  even  make  anymore,  shotgun  shells  loaded  both  with  
buck  and  bird,  and  a
thousand  rounds  each  of  .22  short-  and  long-rifle. Plus  —  get this  — 
sixteen thousand rounds
of      .45 machine-gun bullets.

'Holy shit!' I said.

Mr  Keene  smiled  that  cynical  smile  again  and  offered  me  the  
apothecary  jar.  At  first  I
shook my head and then I took another whip.

'"This here is quite a shopping-list, boys," Lal says.

'"Come  on,  Al,"  Creeping  Jesus  Malloy  says.  "I  told  you  we  wasn't  
going  to  get  it  in  a  hick
town  like  this. Let's go on up to Bangor. They won't have nothing there 
either, but I can use a
ride."

'"Now  hold  your  horses,"  Lal  says,  just  as  cool  as  a  cucumber.  
"This  here  is  one  hell  of  a
good  order  and  I  wouldn't  want  to  lose  it  to  that  Jew  up  Bangor.  
I  can give you the .22s right
now,  also  the  bird  and  half  the  buck.  I  can  give  you  a  hundred  
rounds  each  of  the  .38-  and

.45-caliber,  too.  I  could  have  the  rest  for  you  .  .  .  "  And  here  
Lal  sort  of  half-closed his eyes
and tapped his chin, as if calculating it out. " . . . by day after tomorrow. 
How'd that be?"

'Bradley  grinned  like  he'd  split  his  head  around  the  back  and  said  
it  sounded  just  as  fine  as
paint.  Cal  Conklin  said  he'd  still  like  to  go  on  up  to  Bangor,  but 
 he  was  outvoted.  "Now.  if
you're  not  sure you can make good on this order, you ought to say so right 
now," Al Bradley
says to Lal, "because I'm a pretty fine fellow but when I get mad you don't 
want to get into a
pissing contest with me. You follow?"

'"I do," Lal says, "and I'll have all the ammo you could want, Mr — ?"
'"Rader," Brady says. "Richard D. Rader, at your service."

'He stuck out his hand and Lal pumped it, grinning all the while. "Real 
pleased, Mr Rader "

'So  then  Bradley  asked  him  what  would  be  a  good  time  for  him  and 
his friends to drop by
and  pick  up  the  goods,  and  Lal  Machen  asked  them  right  back  how  
two  in  the  afternoon
sounded  to  them.  They  agreed  that  would  be  fine.  Out  they  went.  Lal 
 watched  them  go.  They
met the two women and Gaudy on the sidewalk outside. Lal recognized Gaudy, too.

'So,'  Mr  Keene  said,  looking  at  me  bright-eyed,  'what  do  you  think  
Lal  done  then?  Called
the cops?'


'I  guess  he  didn't,'  I  said,  'based  on  what  happened.  Me,  I  would  
have  broken  my  leg
getting to the telephone.'

'Well,  maybe  you  would  and  maybe  you  wouldn't,'  Mr  Keene  said  with  
that  same  cynical,
bright-eyed  smile,  and  I  shivered  because  I  knew  what  he  meant  .  .  
.  and  he  knew  I  knew.
Once  something  heavy  begins  to  roll,  it  can't  be  stopped;  it's  
simply  going  to  roll  until it finds
a flat place long enough to wear away all of its forward motion. You can stand 
in front of that
thing and get flattened . . . but that won't stop it, either.

'Maybe  you  would  have  and  maybe  you  wouldn't,'  Mr  Keene  repeated.  
'But  I  can  tell  you
what  Lal  Machen  did.  The  rest  of  that  day  and  all  of  the  next,  
when  someone  he  knew  came
in  —  some  man  —  why,  he  would  tell  them  that  he  knew  who  had  
been  out  in  the  woods
around  the  Newport-Derry  line  shooting  at  deer  and  grouse  and  God  
knows  what  else with
Kansas  City  typewriters.  It  was  the  Bradley  Gang.  He  knew  for  a  
fact  because  he  had
recognized  em.  He'd  tell  em  that  Bradley  and  his  men  were  coming  
back  the  next  day  around
two   to   pick   up   the   rest   of   their   order.   He'd   tell   them   
he'd   promised   Bradley  all   the
ammunition he could want, and that was a promise he intended to keep.'

'How  many?'  I  asked.  I  felt  hypnotized  by  his  glittering  eye.  
Suddenly  the  dry  smell  of  this
back room  —  the  smell  of  prescription  drugs  and  powders,  of  Musterole 
 and  Vicks VapoRub
and  Robitussin  cough  syrup  —  suddenly  all  those  smells  seemed  
suffocating  .  .  .  but  I  could
no more have left than I could kill myself by holding my breath.

'How many men did Lal pass the word to?' Mr Keene asked.
I nodded.

'Don't  know for  sure,'  Mr  Keene  said.  'Didn't  stand  right  there  and  
take  up  sentry  duty.  All

those he felt he could trust, I suppose.'

Those he could trust,' I mused. My voice was a little hoarse.

'Ayuh,'  Mr  Keene  said.  'Derrymen,  you  know.  Not  that  many  of  em  
raised  cows.'  He
laughed  at  this  old  joke  before  going  on.  'I  came  in  around  ten  
the  day  after  the  Bradleys  first
dropped  in  on  Lal.  He  told  me  the  story,  then  asked  how  he  could  
help  me.  I'd  only  come  in
to see if my last roll of pictures had been developed — in those days Machen's 
handled all the
Kodak  films  and  cameras  —  but after I got my photos I also said I could 
use some ammo for
my Winchester.

'"You gonna shoot some game, Norb?" Lal asks me, passing over the shells.

'"Might  plug  some  varmints,"  I  said,  and  we  had  us  a  chuckle  over  
that.'  Mr  Keene  laughed
and  slapped  his  skinny  leg  as  if  this  was  still  the  best  joke  he  
had  ever  heard.  He  leaned
forward  and  tapped  my  knee.  'All  I  mean,  son,  is  that  the  story  
got  around  all  it  needed  to.
Small  towns,  you  know.  If  you  tell  the  right  people,  what  you  need  
to  pass  along  will  get
along . . . see what I mean? Like another licorice whip?'

I took one with numb fingers.

'Make  you  fat,'  Mr  Keene  said,  and  cackled.  He  looked  old  then  .  . 
 .  infinitely old, with his
bifocals  slipping  down  the  gaunt  blade  of  his  nose  and  the  skin  
stretched  too  tight  and  thin
across his cheeks to wrinkle.

The next day I brought my rifle into the store with me and Bob Tanner, who 
worked harder
than  any  assistant  I  ever  had  after  him,  brought  in  his  pop's  
shotgun.  Around  eleven  that  day
Gregory  Cole  came  in  for  a  bicarb  of  soda  and  damned  if  he  didn't  
have  a  Colt.45  jammed
right  in his belt.

'"Don't blow your balls off with that, Greg," I said.

'"I  come  out  of  the  woods  all  the  way  from  Milford  for  this  and  I 
 got  one  fuck  of  a
hangover," Greg says. "I guess I'll blow someone's balls off before the sun 
goes down."

'Around  one -thirty,  I  put  the  little  sign  I  had,   BE  BACK  SOON,  
PLEASE  BE  PATIENT,  in the
door  and  took  my  rifle  and  walked  out  the  back  into  Richard's  
Alley.  I  asked  Bob  Tanner  if
he  wanted  to  come  along  and  he  said  he'd  better  finish  filling  Mrs  
Emerson's  prescription  and


he'd  see  me  later.  "Leave  me  a  live  one,  Mr  Keene,"  he  said,  but  
I  allowed  as how I couldn't
promise nothing.

'There was hardly any traffic on Canal Street at all, either on foot or by car. 
Every now and
then a delivery truck would pass, but that was about all. I saw Jake Pinnette 
cross over and he
had  a  rifle  in  each  hand.  He met Andy Criss, and they walked over to one 
of the benches that
used to stand where the War Memorial was — you know, where the Canal goes 
underground.

'Petie  Vanness  and  Al  Nell  and  Jimmy  Gordon  were  all  sitting  on  the 
 courthouse  steps,
eating  sandwiches  and  fruit  out  of  their  dinnerbuckets,  trading  with  
each  other  for  stuff  that
looked better to them, the way kids do on the schoolyard. They was all armed. 
Jimmy Gordon
had himself a World War I Springfield that looked bigger than he did.

'I  see  a  kid  go  walking  toward  Up-Mile Hill  —  I  think  maybe  it  was 
 Zack  Denbrough,  the
father  of  your  old  buddy,  the  one  who  turned  out  to  be  a  writer  — 
 and  Kenny  Borton  says
from  the  window  of  the  Christian  Science  Reading  Room,  "You  want  to  
get  out  of  here,  kid;
there's going to be shooting." Zack took one look at his face and ran like 
hell.

There  were  men  everywhere,  men  with  guns,  standing  in  doorways  and  
sitting  on  steps  and
looking  out  of  windows.  Greg  Cole  was  sitting  in  a  doorway  down  the 
 street  with  his  .45 in
his  lap  and  about  two  dozen  shells  lined  up  beside  him  like  toy  
sojers.  Bruce  Jagermeyer  and
that  Swede,  Olaf  Theramenius,  were  standing  underneath  the  marquee  of  
the  Bijou  in  the
shade.'

Mr  Keene  looked  at  me,  through  me.  His  eyes  were  not  sharp now; they 
were hazy with
memory,  soft  as  the  eyes  of  a  man  only  become  when  he  is  
remembering  one  of  the  best
times of his life  —  the  first  home  run  he  ever  hit, maybe, or the first 
trout he ever landed that
was big enough to keep, or the first time he ever lay with a willing woman.

'I  remember  I  heard  the  wind,  sonny,'  he  said  dreamily.  'I  remember  
hearing  the  wind
hearing  the  courthouse  clock  toll  two.  Bob  Tanner  came  up  behind  me  
and  I  was  so  tight-
wired I almost blew his head off.

'He  only  nodded  at  me  and  crossed  over  to  Vannock's  Dry  Goods,  
trailing  his  shadow  out
behind him.

'You  would  have  thought  that  when  it  got  to  be  two-ten  and  nothing  
happened,  then  two-

fifteen, then two-twenty,  folks  would  have  just  up  and  left,  wouldn't  
you?  But  it didn't happen
that way at all. People just kept their place. Because — '

'Because  you  knew  they  were  going  to  come,  didn't  you?'  I  asked.  
There  was  never  any
question at all.'

He  beamed  at  me  like  a  teacher  pleased  with  a  student's  recital.  
That's right!' he said. 'We

knew.  No  one  had  to  talk  about  it,  no  one  had  to  say,  "Wellnow,  
let's  wait  until  twenty  past
and if they don't show I've got to get back to work." Things just stayed quiet, 
and around two-
twenty-five  that  afternoon  these  two  cars,  one  red  and  one  dark  
blue,  started  down  Up-Mile
Hill      and  came  into  the  intersection.  One  of  them  was  a  Chevrolet 
 and  the  other  was  a  La
Salle.  The  Conklin  brothers,  Patrick  Caudy,  and  Marie  Hauser  were  in  
the  Chevrolet.  The
Bradleys, Malloy, and Kitty Donahue were in the La Salle.

They  started  through  the  intersection  okay,  and  then  Al  Bradley  
slammed  on  the  brakes  of
that  La  Salle  so  sudden  that  Caudy  damn  near  ran  into  him.  The  
street  was  too  quiet  and
Bradley  knew  it.  He  wasn't  nothing  but  an  animal,  but  it  doesn't  
take  much  to  put  up  an
animal's wind when it's been chased like a weasel in the corn for four years.

'He  opened  the  door  of  the  La  Salle  and  stood  up  on  the  running  
board  for  a  moment.  He
looked  around,  then  he  made  a  "go-back"  gesture  to Caudy with his hand. 
Caudy said "What,
boss?" I heard that plain as day, the only thing I heard any of them say that 
day. There was a
wink  of  sun,  too,  I  remember  that.  It  came  off  a  compact  mirror.  
The  Hauser  woman  was
powdering her nose.


That  was  when  Lal  Machen  and  his  helper,  Biff  Marlow,  came  running  
out  of  Machen's
store. "Put em up, Bradley, you're surrounded!" Lal shouts, and before Bradley 
could do more
than  turn  his  head,  Lal  started  blasting.  He  was  wild  at  first,  but 
 then  he  put  one  into  Bradley's
shoulder.  The  claret  started  to  pour  out  of  that  hole  right  away.  
Bradley  caught  hold  of  the  La
Salle's  doorpost  and  swung  himself  back  into  the  car.  He  threw  it  
into  gear,  and  that's  when
everyone started to shoot.

'It  was  all  over  in  four,  maybe five minutes, but it seemed a whole hell 
of a lot longer while
it  was  happening.  Petie  and  Al  and  Jimmy  Gordon  just  sat  there  on  
the  courthouse  steps  and
poured bullets into the back end of the Chevrolet. I saw Bob Tanner down on one 
knee, firing
and  working  the  bolt  on  that  old  rifle  of  his  like  a  madman.  
Jagermeyer  and  Theramenius
were  shooting  into  the  right  side  of  the  La  Salle  from  under  the  
theater  marquee  and  Greg
Cole  stood  in  the  gutter,  holding  that  .45  automatic  out  in  both  
hands,  pulling  the trigger just
as fast as he could work it.

'There  must  have  been  fifty,  sixty  men  firing  all  at  once.  After  it 
 was  all  over  Lal  Machen
dug thirty-six  slugs  out  of  the  brick  sides  of  his  store.  And  that  
was  three  days  later,  after  just
about  every-damn-body in town who wanted one for a souvenir had come down and 
dug one
out  with  his  penknife.  When  it  was  at  its  worst,  it  sounded  like  
the  Battle  of  the  Marne.
Windows were blown in by rifle -fire all around Machen's.

'Bradley  got  the  La  Salle  around  in  a  half-circle  and  he  wasn't  
slow  but  by  the  time  he'd
done  he  was  running  on  four  flats.  Both  the  headlights  were  blowed  
out,  and  the  windscreen
was gone. Creeping Jesus Malloy and George Bradley were each at a backseat 
window, firing
pistols. I seen one  bullet take Malloy high up in the neck and tear it wide 
open. He shot twice
more and then collapsed out the window with his arms hanging down.

'Gaudy  tried  to  turn  the  Chevrolet  and  only  ran  into  the  back  end  
of  Bradley's  La  Salle.
That  was  really  the end  of  em  right  there,  son.  The  Chevrolet's  
front  bumper  locked  with  the
La Salle's back one and there went any chance they might have had to make a run 
for it.

'Joe Conklin got out of the back seat and just stood there in the middle of the 
intersectio n, a
pistol  in  each  hand,  and  started  to  pour  it  on.  He  was  shooting  at 
 Jake  Pinnette  and  Andy
Criss.  The  two  of  them  fell  off  the  bench  they'd  been  sitting  on  
and  landed  in  the  grass,  Andy
Criss  shouting  "I'm  killed!  I'm  killed!"  over  and  over  again,  
although  he  was  never  so  much
as touched; neither of them were.

'Joe  Conklin,  he  had  time  to  fire  both  his  guns  empty  before  
anything  so  much  as  touched
him.  His  coat  flew  back  and  his  pants  twitched  like  some  woman  you  
couldn't  see  was
stitching on them.  He was wearing a straw hat, and it flew off his head so you 
could see how
he'd  center-parted his hair. He had one of his guns under his arm and was 
trying to reload the
other  when  someone  cut  the  legs  out  from  under  him  and  he  went  
down.  Kenny  Borton
claimed him later, but there was really no way to tell. Could have been 
anybody.

'Conklin's  brother  Cal  came  out  after  him  soon's  Joe  fell  and  down  
he  went  like  a  ton  of
bricks with a hole in his head.

'Marie  Hauser  came  out.  Maybe  she  was  trying  to  sur render,  I  dunno. 
 She  still  had  the
compact she'd been using to powder her nose in her right hand. She was 
screaming, I believe,
but  by  then  it  was  hard  to  hear.  Bullets  was  flying  all  around  
them.  That  compact  mirror  was
blown  right  out  of  her  hand.  She  started back to the car then but she 
took one in the hip. She
made it somehow and managed to crawl inside again.

'Al  Bradley  revved  the  La  Salle  up  just  as  high  as  it  would  go,  
and  managed  to  get  it
moving again. He dragged the Chevrolet maybe ten feet before the bumper tore 
right off 'n it.

'The  boys  poured  lead  into  it.  All  the  windows  was  busted.  One  of  
the  mudguards  was
laying  in  the  street.  Malloy  was  dead  hanging  out  the  window,  but  
both  of  the  Bradley
brothers  were  still  alive.  George  was  firing  from  the  back  seat.  His 
 woman  was  dead  beside
him with one of her eyes shot out.


'Al  Bradley  got  to  the  big  intersection,  then  his  auto  mounted  the  
curb  and  stopped  there.

He got out from behind the wheel and started running up Canal Street. He was 
riddled.

'Patrick  Gaudy  got  out  of  the  Chevrolet,  looked  as  if  he  was  going  
to  surrender  for  a
minute,  then  he  grabbed  a.38  from  a  cheater-holster  under  his  armpit. 
 He  triggered  it  off
maybe  three  times,  just  firing  wild,  and  then  his  shirt  blew  back  
fr om his chest in flames. He
slid  down  the  side  of  the  Chevy  until  he  was  sitting  on  the  
running  board.  He  shot  one  more
time,  and  so  far  as  I  know  that  was  the  only  bullet  that  hit  
anyone;  it  ricocheted  off  something
and then grazed across the back of Greg  Cole's hand. Left a scar he used to 
show off when he
was  drunk  until  someone  —  Al  Nell,  maybe  —  took  him  aside  and  told 
 him  it  might  be  a
good idea to shut up about what happened to the Bradley Gang.

'The  Hauser  woman  came  out  and  that  time  wasn't  any  doubt  she  was  
trying  to  surrender

—  she  had  her  hands  up.  Maybe  no  one  really  meant  to  kill  her,  
but  by  then  there  was  a
crossfire and she walked right into it.

'George  Bradley  run  as  far  as  that  bench  by  the  War  Memorial,  then  
someone  pulped  the

back of his head with a shotgun blast. He fell down dead with his pants full of 
piss . . . '
Hardly aware I was doing it, I took a licorice whip from the jar.

'They  went  on  pouring  rounds  into  those  cars  for  another  minute  or  
so  before  it  began  to
taper  off,'  Mr  Keene  said.  'When  men  get  then:  blood  up,  it  doesn't 
 go  down  easy.  That  was
when  I  looked  around  and  saw  Sheriff  Sullivan  behind  Nell  and  the  
others  on  the  courthouse
steps,  putting  rounds  through  that  dead  Chevy  with  a  Remington  pump.  
Don't  let  anyone tell
you he wasn't there; Norbert Keene is sitting in front of you and telling you 
he was.

'By the time the firing stopped, those cars didn't look like cars at all 
anymore, just hunks of

junk  with  glass  around  them.  Men  started  to  walk  over  to  them. No 
one talked. All you could
hear  was  the  wind  and  feet  gritting  over  broken  glass.  That's  when  
the  picture-taking started.
And you ought to know this, sonny: when the picture-taking starts, the story is 
over.'

Mr Keene rocked in his chair, his slippers bumping placidly on the floor, 
looking at me.

'There's  nothing  like  that  in  the  Derry News,'  was  all  I  could  think 
 of  to  say.  The  headline
for  that  day  had  read  STATE POLICE,  FBI  GUN  DOWN  BRADLEY GANG IN 
PITCHED BATTLE.  With

the subhead 'Local Police Lend Support.'

'Course  not,'  Mr  Keene  said,  laughing  delightedly.  'I  seen  the  
publisher,  Mack  Laughlin,
put two rounds into Joe Conklin himself.'

'Christ,' I muttered.

'Get enough licorice, sonny?'

'I  got  enough,'  I  said.  I  licked  my  lips.  'Mr  Keene,  how  could  a  
thing  of  that  .  .  .  that
magnitude . . . be covered up?'

'Wasn't  no  cover-up,'  he  said,  looking  honestly  surprised.  'It  was  
just  that  no  one  talked
about  it  much.  And  really,  who  cared?  It  wasn't  President  and  Mrs  
Hoover  that went down
that  day.  It  was  no  worse  than  shooting  mad  dogs  that would kill you 
with a bite if you give
them half a chance.'

'But the women?'

'Couple  of  whores,'  he  said  indifferently.  'Besides,  it  happened  in  
Derry,  not  in  New  York
or  Chicago.  The  place  makes  it  news  as  much  as  what  happened  in  
the  place,  sonny.  That's
why  there  are  bigger  headlines  when  an  earthquake  kills  twelve  people 
 in  Los  Angeles  than
there are when one kills three thousand in some heathen country in the 
Mideast.'

Besides, it happened in Derry.

I've heard it before, and I suppose if I continue to pursue this I'll hear it 
again . . . and again

.  .  .  and  again.  They  say  it  as  if  speaking  patiently  to  a  mental 
 defective.  They  say  it  the  way
they would say  Because of gravity if you asked them how come you stick to the 
ground when
you  walk.  They  say  it  as  if  it  were  a  natural  law  any  natural  man 
 should  understand.  And,  of
course, the worst of that is I do understand.


I had one more question for Norbert Keene.

'Did you see anyone at all that day that you didn't recognize once the shooting 
started?'

Mr Keene's answer was quick enough to drop my blood temperature ten degrees  — 
or so it
felt. 'The clown, you mean? How did you find out about him, sonny?'

'Oh, I heard it somewhere,' I said.

'I  only  caught  a  glimpse  of  him.  Once  things  got  hot,  I  tended  
pretty  much  to  my  own
knittin.  I  glanced  around  just  once  and  saw  him  upstreet  beyond  them 
 Swedes  under  the
Bijou's  marquee,'  Mr  Keene  said.  'He  wasn't  wearing  a clown suit or 
nothing like that. He was
dressed  in  a  pair  of  farmer's  biballs  and  a  cotton  shirt  underneath. 
 But  his  face  was  covered
with  that  white  grease-paint  they  use,  and  he  had  a  big  red  clown  
smile  painted  on.  Also  had
these tufts of fake hair, you know. Orange. Sorta comical.

'Lal  Machen  never  saw  that  fellow,  but  Biff  did.  Only  Biff  must  
have  been  confused,
because he thought he saw him in one of the windows of an apartment over 
somewhere to the
left, and once when I asked Jimmy Gordon  — he  was killed in Pearl Harbor, you 
know, went
down with his ship, the  California,  I think it was  —  he  said  he  saw  the 
 guy  behind  the  War
Memorial.'

Mr Keene shook his head, smiling a little.

'It's  funny  how  people  get  during  a  thing  like  that,  and  even 
funnier  what  they  remember
after  it's  all  over.  You  can  listen  to  sixteen  different  tales  and  
no  two  of  them  will  jibe
together. Take the gun that clown fellow had, for instance — '

'Gun?' I asked. 'He was shooting, too?'

'Ayuh,'   Mr   Keene   said.   The   one   glimpse   I   caught   of   him,   
it   looked   like   he   had   a
Winchester  bolt-action,  and  it  wasn't  until  later  that  I  figured  out  
I  must  have  thought  that
because  that's  what  I  had.  Biff  Marlow  thought  he  had  a  Remington,  
because  that  was  what
he  had.  And  when  I asked  Jimmy  about  it,  he  said  that  guy  was  
shooting  an  old  Springfield,
just like his. Funny, huh?'

'Funny,'  I  managed.  'Mr  Keene  .  .  .  didn't  any  of  you  wonder  what  
in  hell  a  clown,
especially one in farmer's biballs, was doing there just then?'

'Sure,' Mr Keene said. 'It wasn't no big deal, you understand, but sure we 
wondered. Most

of   us   figured   it   was   somebody   who   wanted   to   attend   the   
party   but   didn't   want   to   be
recognized.  A  Town  Council  member,  maybe.  Horst  Mueller,  maybe,  or  
even  Trace  Naugler,
who  was  mayor  back  then.  Or  it  could  just  have  been  a  professional  
man  who  didn't  want  to
be  recognized.  A  doctor  or  a  lawyer.  I  wouldn't  've  recognized  my  
own  father  in  a  get-up like
that.'

He laughed a little and I asked him what was funny.

'There's also a possibility that it was a real clown,' he said. 'Back in the 
twenties and thirties
the  county  fair  in  Esty  came  a  lot  earlier  than  it  does  now,  and  
it  was  set  up  and  going  full
blast  the  week  that  the  Bradley  Gang  met  their  end.  There  were  
clowns  at  the  county  fair.
Maybe  one  of  them  heard  we  were  going  to  have  our  own  little  
carnival  and  rode  down
because he wanted to be in on it.

He smiled at me, dryly.

'I'm  about  talked  out,'  he  said,  'but  I'll  tell  you  one  more  thing, 
 since  you  'pear  to  be  so
interested  and  you  listen  so  close.  It  was  something  Biff  Marlow  
said  about  sixteen  years
later,  when  we  were  having  a  few  beers  up  to  Pilot's  in  Bangor.  
Right  out  of  a  clear  blue  sky
he  said  it.  Said  that  clown  was  leanin  out  of  the  window  so far 
that Biff couldn't believe he
wasn't  fallin  out. It wasn't just his head and shoulders and arms that was 
out; Biff said he was
right  out  to  the  knees,  hanging  there  in  midair,  shooting  down  at  
the  cars  the  Bradleys  had
come  in,  with  that  big  red  grin  on  his  face.  "He  was  tricked  out  
like  a  jackolantern  that  had
got a bad scare," was how Biff put it.'

'Like he was floating,' I said.


'Ayuh,'  Mr  Keene  agreed.  'And  Biff  said  there  was  something  else,  
something  that  bothered
him  for  weeks  afterward.  One of those things you get right on the tip of 
your tongue but won't
quite  come  off,  or  something  that  lights  on  your  skin  like  a  
mosquito  or  a  noseeum.  He  said
he finally figured out what it was one night when he had to get up and tap a 
kidney. He stood
there  whizzing  into  the  bowl,  thinking  of  nothing  in  particular,  when 
 it  come  to  him  all  at
once  that  it  was  two-twenty-five  in  the  afternoon  when  the  shooting  
started  and  the  sun  was
out but that clown didn't cast any shadow. No shadow at all.'


'You   lethargic,   waiting   upon   me,   waiting   for   the   fire   and   I
attendant upon you, shaken by your beauty


Shaken by your beauty
Shaken.'

— William Carlos Williams,

Paterson

'Well I was born in my birthday suit
The doctor slapped my behind

He said "You gonna be special
You sweet little toot toot."'

— Sidney Simien,
'My Toot Toot'


C H A P T E R  1 3

The Apocalyptic Rockfight

1

Bill's  there  first.  He  sits  in  one  of  the  wing-back chairs just inside 
the Reading Room door
watching as Mike deals with the library's last few customers of the night — an 
old lady with a
clutch  of  paperback  gothics,  a  man  with  a  huge  historical  tome  on  
the  Civil  War,  and  a
skinny kid waiting to check out a novel with a seven-day-rental sticker in an 
upper corner of
its  plastic  cover.  Bill  sees  with  no  sense  of  surprise  or  
serendipity  at  all  that  it  is  his  own
latest novel. He feels that surprise is beyond him, serendipity a believed-in 
reality that has
turned out to be only a dream after all.

A pretty girl, her tartan skirt held together with a big gold safety pin 
(Christ, I haven't seen
one of those in years,  Bill thinks, are they coming back?),  is  feeding  
quarters  into  the  Xerox
machine and copying an off print with one eye on the big pendulum clock behind 
the checkout
desk. The sounds are library-soft and library-comforting: the hush-squeak of 
soles and heels
on the red-and-black linoleum of the floor; the steady lock and tick of the 
clock dropping off
dry seconds; the catlike purr of the copying machine.

The boy takes his William Denbrough novel and goes to the girl at the copier 
just as she
finishes and begins to square up her pages.

'You can just leave that off print on the desk, Mary,' Mike says. 'I'll put it 
away.'
She flashes a grateful smile. 'Thanks, Mr Hanlon.'

'Goodnight. Goodnight, Billy. The two of you go right home.'

'The boogeyman will get you if you  don't . . . watch . . . out!' Billy, the 
skinny kid, chants,
and slips a proprietary arm around the girl's slim waist.

'Well, I don't think he'd want a pair as ugly as you two,' Mike says, 'but be 
careful, all the
same.'

'We will, Mr Hanlon,' Mary replies, seriously enough, and punches the boy 
lightly on the
shoulder. 'Come on, ugly,' she says, and giggles. When she does this she is 
transformed from
a pretty mildly desirable high-school junior into the coltish not-quite-gawky 
eleven-year-old
that Beverly Marsh had been . . . and as they pass him Bill is shaken by her 
beauty . . . and he
feels  fear;  he  wants  to  go  to  the  boy  and tell him earnestly that he 
must go home by well-
lighted streets and not look around if someone speaks.

You can't be careful on a skateboard, mister, a phantom voice says inside his 
head, and Bill
smiles a rueful grownup's smile.

He watches the boy open the door for his girl. They go into the vestibule, 
moving closer
together,  and  Bill  would  have  bet  the  royalties  of  the  book  the  boy 
 named  Billy  is holding
under his arm that he has stolen a kiss before opening the outer door for the 
girl. More fool
you if you didn't, Billy my man,  he  thinks.  Now see her home safe. For 
Christ's sake see her
home safe!

Mike calls, 'Be right with you, Big Bill. Just let me file this.' Bill nods and 
crosses his legs.
The paper bag on his lap crackles a little. There's a pint of bourbon inside 
and he reckons he
has never wanted a drink so badly in his life as he does right now. Mike will 
be able to supply
water, if not ice — and the way he feels right now, a very little water will be 
enough.

He  thinks  of  Silver,  leaning  against the wall of Mike's garage on Palmer 
Lane. And from
that his thoughts progress naturally to the day they had met in the Barrens — 
all except Mike


— and each had told his tale again: lepers under porches; mummies who walked on 
the ice;
blood  from  drains and dead boys in the Standpipe and pictures that moved and 
werewolves
that chased small boys down deserted streets.

They had gone deeper into the Barrens that day before the Fourth of July, he 
remembers
now.  It  had  been  hot  in  town  but  cool  in  the  tangled  shade  on  the 
 eastern  bank  of  the
Kenduskeag. He remembers one of those concrete cylinders not far away, humming 
to itself
the        way  the  Xerox  machine  had  hummed  for  the  pretty  high-school 
 girl  just  now.  Bill
remembers that, and how, when all the stories were done, the others had looked 
at him.

They had wanted him to tell them what they should do next, how they should 
proceed, and

he simply didn't know. The not knowing had filled him with a kind of 
desperation.

Looking at Mike's shadow now, looming large on the darkly paneled wall in the 
reference
room,  a  sudden  sureness  comes  to  him:  he  hadn't  known  then  because  
they  hadn't  been
complete  when  they  met  that  July  3rd  afternoon.  The  completion  had  
come  later,  at  the
abandoned gravel-pit  beyond  the  dump, where you could climb out of the 
Barrens easily on
either side  —  Kansas  Street  or  Merit  Street.  Right  around,  in  fact,  
where  the  Interstate
overpass  was  now.  The  gravel-pit had no name; it was old, its crumbly sides 
crabby with
weeds and bushes. There had still been plenty of ammunition there  — more than 
enough for
an apocalyptic rockfight.

But before that, on the bank of the Kenduskeag, he hadn't been sure what to say 
— what
did they want him to say? What did  he want to say? He remembers looking from 
one face to
the next — Ben's; Bev's; Eddie's; Stan's; Richie's. And he remembers

music. Little Richard. 'Whomp-bomp-a-lomp-bomp . . . ' Music. Low. And darts of 
light in

his eyes. He remembers the darts of light because.

2

Richie  had  hung  his  transistor  radio  over  the  lowermost  branch  of  
the  tree  he  was  leaning
against.  Although  they  were  in  the  shade,  the  sun  bounced  off  the  
surface  of  the  Kenduskeag,
onto the radio's chrome facing, and from there into Bill's eyes.

T-Take that th-hing d-d-d-own, Ruh-Ruh-Richie,' Bill said. 'It's gonna 
bun-blind m-m-me.'

'Sure,  Big  Bill,'  Richie  said  at  once,  with  no  smartmouth  at  all,  
and  removed  the  radio  from
the  branch.  He  also  turned  it  off,  and  Bill  wished  he  hadn't  done  
that;  it  made  the  silence,
broken  only  by  the  rippling  water  and  the  vague  hum  of  the  sewage 
-pumping machinery,
seem  very  loud.  Their  eyes  watched  him  and  he  wanted  to  tell  them  
to  look  somewhere  else,
what did they think he was, a freak?

But  of  course  he  couldn't  do  that,  because  all  they  were  doing  was  
waiting  for  him  to  tell
them  what  to  do  now.  They  had  come  by  dreadful  knowledge,  and  they  
needed  him  to  tell
them what to do with it.  Why me!  he wanted to shout at them, but of course he 
knew that, too.
It  was  because,  like  it  or  not,  he  had  been  tapped  for  the  
position.  Because  he  was  the  idea-
man, because he had lost a brother to whatever it was, but most of all because 
he had become,
in some obscure way he would never completely understand, Big Bill.

He  glanced  at  Beverly  and looked away quickly from the calm trust in her 
eyes. Looking at
Beverly made him feel funny in the pit of his stomach. Fluttery.

'We cuh-can't  go  to  the  p-p-police,' he said at last. His voice sounded 
harsh to his own ears,
too  loud.  'We  c-ca-han't  g-go to our puh-huh-harents, either. Unless . . . 
' He looked hopefully
at  Richie.  'What  a-a-about  your  m-mom  and  d-dad,  four-eyes?  They  
suh-heem  p-pretty  reh-
reh-regular.'

'My  good  man,'  Richie  said  in  his  Toodles  the  Butler  Voice,  'you  
obviously  have  no
understahnding whatsoevah of my mater and pater. They — '


'Talk  American,  Richie,'  Eddie  said  from  his  spot  by  Ben.  He  was  
sitting  by  Ben  for  the
simple  reason  that  Ben  provided  enough  shade  for  Eddie  to  sit  in.  
His  face  looked  small  and
pinched and worried — an old man's face. His aspirator was in his right hand.

'They'd  think  I  was  ready  for  Juniper  Hill,'  Richie  said.  He  was  
wearing  an  old  pair  of
glasses  today.  The  day  before  a  friend  of  Henry  Bowers's  named  Card  
Jagermeyer  had  come
up  behind  Richie  as  Richie  left  the  Derry  Ice  Cream  Bar  with  a  
pistachio  cone.  'Tag,  you're
it!'  this  Jagermeyer,  who  outweighed  Richie  by  forty  pounds  or  so,  
screamed,  and  slammed
Richie  full  in  the  back  with  both  hands  laced  together.  Richie  flew  
into  the  gutter,   losing his
glasses  and  his  ice-cream  cone.  The  left  lens  of  his  glasses  had  
shattered,  and his mother was
furious with him about it, lending very little credence to Richie's 
explanations.

'All  I  know  is  that  it  was  a  lot  of  fooling  around,'  she  had  
said.  'Honestly,  Richie,  do  you
think  there's  a  glasses-tree  somewhere  and  we  can  just  pull  off  a  
new  pair  of  spectacles  for
you whenever you break the old pair?'

'But  Mom,  this  kid  pushed  me,  he  came  up  behind  me,  this  big  kid,  
and  pushed  me  — '
Richie  was  by  then  near  tears.  This  failure  to  make  his  mother  
understand  hurt  much  worse
than  being  slammed  into  the  gutter  by  Card  Jagermeyer,  who  was  so  
stupid  they  hadn't  even
bothered to send him to summer-school.

'I  don't  want  to  hear  any  more  about  it,'  Maggie  Tozier  said  
flatly.  'But  the  next  time  you
see  your  father  come  in  looking  whipped  after  working  late  three  
nights  in  a  row,  you  think  a
little bit, Richie. You think about it.'

'But Mom — '

'No  more,  I  said.'  Her  voice  was  curt  and  final  —  worse,  it  was  
near  tears.  She  left  the
room  then  and  the  TV  went  on  much  too  loud.  Richie  had  been  left  
alone  sitting  miserably  at
the kitchen table.

It  was  this  memory  that  caused  Richie  to  shake  his  head  again.  'My  
folks  are  okay,  but
they'd never believe something like this.'

'W-What a-a-about other kih-kids?'

And  they  looked  around,  Bill  would  remember  years  later,  as  if  for  
someone  who  wasn't
there.

'Who?' Stan asked doubtfully. 'I can't think of anyone else I trust.'

'Just  the  suh-suh-same  .  .  .  '  Bill  said  in  a  troubled  voice,  and  
a  little  silence  fell  among
them while Bill thought about what to say next.

3

If  asked,  Ben  Hanscom  would  have  told  you  that  Henry  Bowers  hated  
him  more  than  any  of
the others in the Losers' Club, because of what had happened that day when he 
and Henry had
shot  the  chutes  down  into  the  Barrens  from  Kansas  Street,  because  of 
 what  had  happened  the
day  he  and  Richie  and  Beverly  escaped  from  the  Aladdin,  but  most  of 
 all  because,  by  not
allowing   Henry   to   copy   during   examinations,   he   had   caused   
Henry   to   be   sent   to
summerschool and incur the wrath of his father, the reputedly insane Butch 
Bowers.

If  asked,  Richie  Tozier  would  have  told  you  Henry  hated  him  more  
than  any  of the  others,
because of the day he had fooled Henry and his two other musketeers in 
Freese's.

Stan  Uris  would  have  told  you  that  Henry  hated  him  most  of  all  
because  he  was  a  Jew
(when  Stan  had  been  in  the  third  grade  and  Henry  the  fifth,  Henry  
had  once  washed  Stan's
face with snow until it bled and he was screaming hysterically with pain and 
fear).

Bill  Denbrough  believed  that  Henry  hated  him  the  most  because  he  was 
 skinny,  because  he
stuttered,  and  because  he  liked  to  dress  well  ('L-L-Look  at  the  
f-f-f-fucking puh-puh-PANSY!'
Henry  had  cried  when  the  Derry  School  had  had  Careers  Day  in  April  
and  Bill  had  come


wearing  a  tie;  before  the  day  was  over,  the  tie  had  been  ripped  
off  and  flung  into  a  tree
halfway down Charter Street).

He  did  hate  all  four  of  them,  but  the  boy  in  Derry  who  was  number 
 one  on  Henry's
personal  Hate  Parade  was  not  in  the  Losers'  Club  at  all  on  that  
July  3rd;  he  was  a  black  boy
named  Michael  Hanlon,  who  lived  a  quarter  of  a  mile  down  the  road  
from  the  shirttail
Bowers farm.

Henry's  father,  who  was  every  bit  as  crazy  as  he  was  reputed  to  
be,  was  Oscar  'Butch'
Bowers.  Butch  Bowers  associated  his  financial,  physical,  and  mental  
decline  with  the  Hanlon
family  in  general  and  with  Mike's  father  in  particular.  Will  Hanlon,  
he  was  fond  of  telling  his
few  friends  and  his  son,  had  had  him  thrown  in  the  county  jail  
when  all  of  his,  Hanlon's,
chickens  died.  'So's  he  could  get  the  insurance  money,  don't  you  
know,'  Butch  would  say,
eying  his  audience  with  all  the  baleful  interrupt-if-you-dare  pugnacity 
 of  Captain  Billy  Bones
in the Admiral Benbow. 'He got some of his friends to lie him up, and that's 
why I had to sell
my Merc'ry.'

'Who  lied  him  up,  Daddy?'  Henry  had  asked  when  he  was  eight,  
burning  at  the  injustice
that  had  been  done  to  his  father.  He  thought  to  himself  that when he 
was a grownup he would
find  liar-uppers  and  coat  them  with  honey  and  stake  them  out  over  
anthills,  like  in  some  of
those Western movies they showed at the Bijou Theater on Saturday afternoons.

And   because   his   son   was   a   tireless   listener   (although,   if   
asked,   Butch   would   have
maintained  that  was  only  as  it  should  be),  Bowers  Senior  filled  his  
son's  ears  with  a  litany  of
hate  and  hard  luck.  He  explained  to  his  son  that  while  all  niggers  
were  stupid,  some  were
cunning  as  well  —  and  down  deep  they  all  hated  white  men  and  
wanted  to  plow  a  white
woman's  furrow.  Maybe  it  wasn't  just  the  insurance  money  after  all,  
Butch  said;  maybe
Hanlon had decided to lay the blame for the dead chickens at his door because 
Butch had the
next produce stand down the road. He done it, anyway, and that was just as sure 
as shit sticks
to a blanket. He done it and then got a bunch of white nigger bleeding hearts 
from town to lie
him  up  and  threaten  Butch  with  state  prison  if  he  didn't  pay  that  
nigger  off.  'And  why  not?'
Butch  would  ask  his  round-eyed  dirty-necked  silent  son.  'Why  not?  I  
was  just  a  man  who
fought  the  Japs  for  his  country.  There  was  lots  of  guys  like  us,  
but  he  was  the  only  nigger  in
the county.'

The  chicken  business  had  been  followed  by  one  unlucky  incident  after  
another   —  his
Deere tractor had blown a rod; his good harrow got busted in the north field; 
he got a boil on
his  neck  which  became  infected,  had  to  be  lanced,  then  became  
infected  again  and  had  to  be
removed   surgically;   the   nigger   started   using   his   foully   gotten  
 money   to   undercut   Butch's
prices so they lost custom.

In  Henry's  ears,  it  was  a  constant  litany:  the  nigger,  the  nigger,  
the  nigger.  Everything was
the  nigger's  fault.  The  nigger  had  a  nice  white  house  with  an  
upstairs  and  an  oil  furnace while
Butch  and  his  wife  and  his  son  lived  in  what  was  not  much  better  
than  a  tarpaper  shack.
When  Butch  couldn't  make  enough  money  farming  and  had  to  go  to  work 
 in  the  woods  for
awhile, it was the nigger's fault. When their well went dry in 1956, it was the 
nigger's fault.

Later  that  same  year  Henry,  who  was  then  ten  years  old,  started  to  
feed  Mike's  dog  Mr
Chips  old  stewbones  and  bags  of  potato-chips.  It  got  so  Mr  Chips  
would  wag  his  tail  and
come  running  when  Henry  called.  When  the  dog  was  well used  to  Henry  
and  Henry's  treats,
Henry  one  day  fed  him  a  pound  of  hamburger  laced  with  insect  
poison.  The  bug-killer he
found in the back shed; he had saved three weeks to buy the meat at Costello's.

Mr   Chips   ate   half   the   poisoned   meat   and   then   stopped.   'Go   
on,   finish   your   treat,
Niggerdog,'  Henry  had  said.  Mr  Chips  wagged  his  tail.  Since  Henry  
had  called  him  this  from
the  beginning,  he  believed  it  was  his  other  name.  When  the  pains  
started,  Henry  produced  a
piece  of  clothesline  and  tied  Mr  Chips  to  a   birch  so  he  couldn't  
get  away  and  run  home.  He
then sat on a flat sun-warmed rock, put his chin in his palms, and watched the 
dog die. It took


a  good  long  time,  but  Henry  considered  it  time  well  spent.  At  the  
end  Mr  Chips  began  to
convulse and a thin green foam ran from between his jaws.

'How  do  you  like  that,  Niggerdog?'  Henry  asked  it,  and  it  rolled  
its  dying  eyes  up  at  the
sound of Henry's voice and tried to wag its tail. 'Did you like your lunch, you 
shitty mutt?'

When  the  dog  was  dead,  Henry  removed  the  clothesline,  went  home,  and 
 told  his  father
what  he  had  done.  Oscar  Bowers  was  extremely  crazy  by  that  time;  a  
year  later  his  wife
would  leave  him  after  he  beat  her  nearly  to  death.  Henry  was  
likewise  frightened  of  his  father
and felt a terrible  hate  for  him  sometimes,  but  he  also  loved  him.  
And  that  afternoon,  after  he
had  told,  he  felt  he  had  finally  found  the  key  to  his  father's  
affections,  because  his  father  had
clapped  him  on  the  back  (so  hard  that  Henry  almost  fell  over),  
taken  him in  the living room,
and given him a beer. It was the first beer Henry had ever had, and for all the 
rest of his years
he would associate that taste with positive emotions: victory and love.

'Here's  to  a  good  job  well  done,'  Henry's  crazy  father  had  said.  
They  clicked their brown
bottles together and drank them down. So far as Henry knew, the niggers had 
never found out
who killed their dog, but he supposed they had their suspicions. He hoped they 
did.

The  others  in  the  Losers'  Club  knew  Mike  by  sight   —  in a  town  
where  he  was  the  only
Negro  child,  it  would  have  been  strange  if  they  had  not   —  but  
that  was  all,  because  Mike
didn't  go  to  Derry  Elementary  School.  His  mother  was  a  devout  
Baptist  and  Mike  was
therefore   sent   to   the   Neibolt   Street   Church   School.   In   
between  geography,  reading,  and
arithuaetic  there  were  Bible  drills,  lessons  on  such  subjects  as  The  
Meaning  of  the  Ten
Commandments   in   a   Godless   World,   and   discussion-groups   on   how   
to   handle   everyday
moral  problems  (if  you  saw  a  buddy  shoplifting,  for  instance,  or  
heard  a  teacher  taking  the
name of God in vain).

Mike  thought  the  Church  School  was  okay.  There  were  times  when  he  
suspected,  in  a
vague  way,  that  he  was  missing  some  things  —  a  wider  communication  
with  kids  his  own
age perhaps  —  but  he  was  willing  to  wait  until  high  school  for  
these  things  to  happen.  The
prospect  made  him  a  little  nervous  because  his  skin  was  brown,  but  
both  his  mother  and
father had been well treated in town as far as Mike could see, and Mike 
believed he would be
treated well if he treated others the same way.

The exception to this rule, of course, was Henry Bowers.

Although  he  tried  to  show  it  as  little  as  possible,  Mike  went  in  
constant  terror  of  Henry.  In
1958   Mike   was   slim   and   well   built,   taller   than   Stan   Uris   
but   not  quite  as  tall  as  Bill
Denbrough.  He  was  fast  and  agile,  and  that  had  saved  him  from  
several  beatings  at  Henry's
hands.  And,  of  course,  he  went  to  a  different  school.  Because  of  
that  and  the  age  difference,
their  paths  rarely  coincided.  Mike  took  pains  to  keep  things  that  
way.  So  the  irony  was  this:
although  Henry  hated  Mike  Hanlon  more  than  any  other  kid  in  Derry,  
Mike  had  been  the
least hurt of any of them.

Oh, he had taken his lumps. The spring after he had killed Mike's dog, Henry 
sprang out of
the  bushes  one  day  while  Mike  was  walking  toward  town  to  go  to  the 
 library.  It  was  late
March,  warm  enough  for  bike-riding,  but  in  those  days  Witcham  Road  
turned  to  dirt  just
beyond the Bowers place, which meant that it was a quagmire of mud — no good 
for bikes.

'Hello, nigger,' Henry had said, emerging from the bushes, grinning.

Mike  backed  off,  eyes  flicking  warily  right  and  left,  watching  for  a 
 chance  to  get  away.  He
knew  that  if  he  could  buttonhook  around  Henry,  he  could  outdistance  
him.  Henry  was big and
Henry was strong, but Henry was also slow.

'Gonna  make  me  a  tarbaby,'  Henry  said,  advancing  on  the  smaller  boy. 
 'You're  not  black
enough, but I'll fix that.'

Mike  cut  his  eyes  to  the  left  and  twitched  his  body  in  that  
direction.  Henry  took  the bait
and  broke  that  way  —  too  fast  and  too  far  to  pull  himself  back.  
Reversing  with  a  sweet  and
natural  speed,  Mike  took  off  to  the  right  (in  high  school  he  would  
make  the  varsity  football


team  as  a  tailback  his  sophomore  year,  and  was  only  kept  from  
breaking  the  school's  all-time
scoring  record  by  a  broken  leg  halfway  through  his  senior  season).  
He  would  have  made  it
easily  past  Henry  but  for  the  mud.  It  was  greasy,  and  Mike  slipped  
to  his  knees.  Before  he
could get up, Henry was upon him.

'Niggerniggernigger!'  Henry  cried  in  a  kind  of  religious  ecstasy  as  
he  rolled  Mike  over.
Mud  went  up  the  back  of  Mike's  shirt  and  down  the  back  of  his  
pants.  He  could  feel  it
squeezing  into  his  shoes.  But  he  did  not  begin  to  cry  until  Henry  
slathered  mud  across  his
face, plugging up both of his nostrils.

'Now   you're   black!'   Henry   had   screamed   gleefully,   rubbing   mud   
in   Mike's   hair.   'Now

you're  REEEELY  black!'  He  ripped  up  Mike's  poplin  jacket  and  the  
tee-shirt  beneath  and
slammed   a   poultice   of   mud   down   over   the  boy's  bellybutton.  
'Now  you're  as  black  as
midnight  in  a  MINESHAFT!'  Henry screamed triumphantly, and slammed mudplugs 
into both

of  Mike's  ears.  Then  he  stood  back,  muddy  hands  hooked  into  his  
belt,  and  yelled: I'  killed

your  dog,  black  boy!'  But  Mike  did  not hear this because of the mud in 
his ears and his own
terrified sobs.

Henry  kicked  a  final  sticky  clot  of  mud  onto  Mike  and  then  turned  
and  walked  home,  not
looking back. A few moments later, Mike got up and did the same, still weeping.

His  mother  was  of  course  furious;  she  wanted  Will  Hanlon  to  call  
Chief  Borton  and  have
him  out  to  the  Bowers  house  before  the  sun  went  down.  'He's  been  
after  Mikey  before,'  Mike
heard  her  say.  He  was  sitting  in  the  bathtub  and  his  parents  were  
in  the  kitchen.  This was his
second  tub  of  water;  the  first  had  turned  black  almost  the  moment  
he  had  stepped  into  it  and
sat  down.  In  her  fury,  his  mother  had  lapsed  into  a  thick  Texas  
patois  Mike  could  barely
understand.  'You  put  the  law  on  him,  Will  Hanlon!  Both  the  dog  and  
the  pup!  You  law  em,
hear   me?'

Will  heard,  but  did  not  do  as  his  wife  asked.  Eventually,  when  she  
cooled  down  (by  then  it
was  that  night  and  Mike  two  hours  asleep),  he  refreshed  her  on  the  
facts  of  life.  Chief  Borton
was   not   Sheriff   Sullivan.   If   Borton   had   been   sheriff   when   
the   incident   of   the   poisoned
chickens  occurred,  Will  would  never  have  gotten  his  two  hundred  
dollars  and  would  have  had
to  be  content  with  that  state  of  affairs.  Some  men  would  stand  
behind  you  and  some  men
wouldn't; Borton was of the latter type. He was, in fact, a jellyfish.

'Mike  has  had  trouble  with  that  kid  before,  yes,'  he  told  Jessica.  
'But  he  hasn't  had  much
because he's careful around Henry Bowers. This will serve to make him more 
careful.'

'You mean you're just going to let it go?'

'Bowers  has  told  his  son  stories  about  his  dealings  with  me,  I  
guess,'  Will  said,  'and  his  son
hates  the  three  of  us  because  of  them,  and  because  his  father  has  
also  told  him  that  hating
niggers  is  what  men  are  supposed  to  do.  It  all comes back to that. I 
can't change the fact that
our son is a Negro any more than I can sit here and tell you that Henry Bowers 
is going to be
the  last  one  to  take  after  him  because  his  skin's  brown.  He's  going 
 to  have  to  deal  with  it  all
the rest of his  life,  as  I  have  dealt  with  it,  and  you  have  dealt  
with  it.  Why,  right  there  in  that
Christian  school  you  were  bound  he  was  going  to  go  to  the  teacher  
told  them  blacks  weren't
as good as whites because Noah's son Ham looked at his father while he was 
drunk and naked
and Noah's other two boys cast their eyes aside. That's why the sons of Ham 
were condemned
to always be hewers of wood and drawers of water, she said. And Mikey said she 
was lookin
right at him while she told that story to them.'

Jessica  looked  at  her  husband,  mute  and  miserable.  Two  tears  fell,  
one  from  each  eye,  and
tracked slowly down her face. 'Isn't there ever any getting away from it?'

His  reply  was  kind  but  implacable;  it  was  a  tune  when  wives  
believed  their  husbands,  and
Jessica had no reason to doubt her Will.

'No.  There  is  no  getting  away  from  the  word  nigger,  not  now,  not  
in  the  world  we've  been

given  to  live  in,  you  and  me.  Country  niggers  from  Maine  are  still  
niggers.  I  have  thought,


times, that the reason I came back to Derry was that there is no better place 
to remember that.
But I'll have a talk with the boy.'

The next day he called Mike out of the barn. Will sat on the yoke of his harrow 
and patted
a place next to him for Mike.

'You want to stay out of that Henry Bowers's way,' he said.
Mike nodded.

'His father is crazy.'

Mike  nodded  again.  He  had  heard  as  much  around  town.  His  few  
glimpses  of  Mr  Bowers
had reinforced the notion.

'I  don't  mean  just  a  little  crazy,'  Will  said,  lighting  a  
home-rolled   Bugler  cigarette  and
looking  at  his  son.  'He's  t  about  three  steps  away  from  the  
boobyhatch.  He  came  back  from
the war that way.'

'I  think  Henry's  crazy  too,'  Mike  said.  His  voice  was  low  but  firm, 
 and  that  strengthened
Will's  heart  .  .  .  although  he  was,  even  after  a  checkered  life  
whose  incidents  had  included
almost  being  burned  alive  in  a  juryrigged  speakeasy called the Black 
Spot, unable to believe a
kid like Henry could be crazy.

'Well,  he's  listened  to  his  father  too  much,  but  that  is  only  
natural,'  Will  said.  Yet  on  this
his  son  was  closer  to  the  truth.  Henry  Bowers,  either  because  of  
his  constant  association  with
his  father  or  because  of  something  else  —  some  interior  thing  —  was 
 indeed  slowly  but
surely going crazy.

'I  don't  want  you  ot  make a career out of running away,' his father said, 
'but because you're

a Negro, you're apt to be put upon a good deal. Do you know what I mean?'

'Yes,  Daddy,'  Mike  said,  thinking  of  Bob  Gautier  at  school,  who  had  
tried  to  explain  to
Mike  that  nigger could not be a bad word, because his father used it all the 
time. In fact, Bob
told  Mike  earnestly,  it  was  a  good  word.  When  a  fighter  on  the  
Friday  Night  Fights  took a
bad beating and managed to stay on his feet, his daddy said, 'His head is as 
hard as a nigger's,'
and  when  someone  was  really  putting  out  at  his  work  (which,  for  Mr  
Gautier,  was  Star  Beef
in  town),  his  daddy  said,  'That  man  works  like  a  nigger.'  'And  my  
daddy  is  just  as  much  a
Christian  as  your  daddy,'  Bob  had  finished.  Mike  remembered  tha t,  
looking  at  Bob  Gautier's
white  earnest  pinched  face,  surrounded  by  the  mangy  fur  of  his  
hand-me-down  snowsuit -
hood,  he  had  felt  not  anger  but  a  terrible  sadness  that  made  him  
feel  like  crying.  He  had  seen
honesty  and  good  intent  in  Bob's  face,  but  what  he had  felt  was 
loneliness, distance, a great
whistling emptiness between himself and the other boy.

'I  see  that  you  do  know  what  I  mean,'  Will  said,  and  ruffled  his  
son's  hair.  'And  what  it  all

comes  down  to  is  that  you  have  to  be  careful  where  you  take  your  
stand.  You  have  to  ask
yourself if Henry Bowers is worth the trouble. Is he?'

'No,'  Mike  said.  'No,  I  don't  think  so.'  It  would  be  yet  awhile  
before  he  changed  his  mind;
July 3rd, 1958, in fact.

4

While  Henry  Bowers,  Victor  Criss,  Belch  Huggins,  Peter  Gordon,  and  a  
half-retarded  high-
school  boy  named  Steve  Sadler  (known  as  Moose,  after  the  character  
in  the  Archie  comics)
were  chasing  a  winded  Mike  Hanlon  through  the  trainyard  and  toward  
the  Barrens  about  half
a  mile  away,  Bill  and  the  rest  of  the  Losers'  Club  were  still  
sitting  on  the  bank  of  the
Kenduskeag, pondering their nightmare problem.

'I nun-know w-where ih-ih-it is, I think,' Bill said, finally breaking the 
silence.

'The  sewers,'  Stan  said,  and  they  all  jumped  at  a  sudden,  harsh 
rattling noise. Eddie smiled
guiltily as he lowered his aspirator back into his lap.


Bill  nodded.  'I  wuh-wuh-was  a-asking  my  fuh-father  about  the  
suh-sewers  a  f-few nuh-hi-
hights a-a-ago.'

'All  of  this  area  was  originally  marsh,'  Zack  told  his  son,  'and  
the  town  fathers  managed  to
put what's downtown these days in the very worst part of it. The section of the 
Canal that runs
under  Center  and  Main  and  comes  out  in  Bassey  Park  is  really  
nothing  but  a  drain  that
happens  to  hold  the  Kenduskeag.  Most  of  the  year  those  drains  are  
almost  empty,  but  they're
important  when  the  spring  runoff  comes  or  when  there  are  floods  .  . 
 .  'He  paused  here,
perhaps  thinking  that  it  had  been  during  the  flood  of  the  previous  
autumn  that  he  had  lost  his
younger son. ' . . . because of the pumps,' he finished.

'Puh-puh-pumps?'  Bill  asked,  turning  his  head  a  little  without  even  
thinking about it. When
he stuttered over the plosive sounds, spittle flew from his lips.

The  drainage  pumps,'  his  father  said.  'They're  in  the  Barrens.  
Concrete  sleeves  that  stick
about three feet out of the ground — '

'Buh-Buh-Ben H-H-H-Hanscom calls them Muh-Morlock h-holes,' Bill said, 
grinning.

Zack grinned back . . . but it was a shadow of his old grin. They were in 
Zack's workshop,
where  he  was  turning  chair-dowels  without  much  interest.  'Sump-pumps  
is  all  they  really  are,
kiddo,'  he  said.  They  sit  in  cylinders  about  ten  feet  deep,  and  
they  pump  the  sewage  and  the
runoff  along  when  the  slope  of  the  land  levels  out  or  angles  up  a  
little. It's old machinery, and
the  city  should  have  some  new  pumps,  but  the  Council  always  pleads  
poverty  when  the  item
comes  up  on  the  agenda  at  budget  meetings.  If  I  had  a  quarter  for  
every  time  I've  been  down
there, up to my knees in crap, rewiring one  of those motors . . . but you 
don't want to hear all
this, Bill. Why don't you go watch TV? I think Sugarfoot's on tonight.'

'I  d-d-do  wuh-want  to  h-hear  it,'  Bill  said,  and  not  only  because  
he  had  come  to  the
conclusion that there was something terrible under Derry someplace.

'Why do you want to hear about a bunch of sewer-pumps?' Zack asked.
'Skuh-skuh-hool ruh-report,' Bill said wildly.

'School's Out.'
'N-N-Next year.'

'Well,  it's  a  pretty  dull  subject,'  Zack  said.  Teacher'll  probably  
give  you  an  F  for  putting

him  to  sleep.  Look,  here's  the  Kenduskeag'  —  he  drew  a  straight  
line  in  the  light  fall  of
sawdust  on  the  table  in  which  his  handsaw  was  embedded  —  'and  
here's  the  Barrens.  Now,
because  downtown's  lower  than  the  residential  areas  —  Kansas  Street,  
say,  or  the  Old  Cape,
or  West  Broadway  —  most  of  the  downtown  waste  has  to  be  pumped  
into  the  river.  The
waste from the houses flows down to the Barrens pretty much on its own. You 
see?'

'Y-Y-Yes,'  Bill  said,  drawing  a  little  closer  to  his  father  to  look  
at  the  lines,  close  enough
so that his shoulder was against his father's arm.

'Someday  they'll  put  a  stop  to  pumping  raw  sewage  into  the  river  
and  that'll  be  an  end  to
the  whole  business.  But  for  now,  we've  got  those  pumps  in  ht e . . . 
what did your buddy call
em?'

'Morlock holes,' Bill said, with not a trace of a stutter; neither he nor his 
father noticed.

'Yeah.  That's  what  the  pumps  in  the  Morlock  holes  are  for,  anyway,  
and  they  work  pretty
well  except  when  there's  too  much  rain  and  the  streams  overflow.  
Because,  although  the
gravity  drains  and  the  sewers  with  the  pumps  were  meant  to  be  
separate  systems,  they
actually crisscross all over the place. See?' He drew a series of 'X's 
radiating out from the line
which  represented  the  Kenduskeag,  and  Bill  nodded.  'Well,  the  only  
thing  you  need  to  know
about  water  draining  is  that  it  will  go  wherever  it  can.  When  it  
gets  high,  it  starts  to  fill  up  the
drains  as  well  as  the  sewers.  When  the  water  in  the  drains  gets  
high  enough  to reach those
pumps, it shorts them out. Makes trouble for me, because I have to fix them.'

'Dad, h-how big are the suh-sewers and drains?'
'You mean, what's the bore on them?'


Bill nodded.

The  main  sewers  are  maybe  six  feet  in  diameter.  The  secondaries,  
from  the  residential
areas,  are  three  or  four,  I  guess.  Some  of  them  might  be  a  little  
bigger.  And  believe  me  when
I  tell  you  this,  Billy,  and  you  can  tell  your  friends:  you  never  
want  to  go  into  one  of  those
pipes, not in a game, not on a dare, not for any reason.'

'Why?'

'A  dozen  different  town  governments  have  built  on  them  since  1885  or 
 so.  During  the
Depression  the  WPA  put  in  a  whole  secondary  drain  system  and  a  
tertiary  sewer  system;
there  was  lots  of  money  for  public  works  back then. But the fellow who 
bossed those projects
got killed in World War II, and about five years later the Water Department 
found out that the
system  blueprints  were  mostly  gone.  That's  about  nine  pounds  of  blues 
 that  just  disappeared
sometime  between  1937  and  1950.  My  point  is  that  nobody  knows  where  
all  the  damned
sewers and drains go, or why.

'When  they  work,  nobody  cares.  When  they  don't,  there's  three  or  
four  sad  sacks  from
Derry  Water  who  have  to  try  and  find  out  which  pump  went  flooey  or 
 where  the  plug-up is.
And  when  they  go  down  there,  they  damn  well  pack  a  lunch.  It's  
dark  and  it's  smelly  and
there are rats. Those are all good reasons to stay out, but the best reason is 
that you could get
lost. It's happened before.'

Lost under Derry. Lost in the sewers. Lost in the dark.  There was something so 
dismal and
chilling  about  the  idea  that  Bill  was  momentarily  silenced.  Then  he  
said,  'But  haven't  they
ever suh-suh-hent people down to map — '

'I  ought  to  finish  these  dowels,'  Zack  said  abruptly,  turning  his  
back  and  pulling  away.  'Go

on in and see what's on TV'

'B-B-But Dah-Dah-Dad — '

'Go  on,  Bill,'  Zack  said,  and  Bill  could  feel  the  coldness  again.  
That  coldness  made  suppers
a  kind  of  torture  as  his  father  leafed  through  electrical  journals  
(he  hoped  for  a  promotion  the
following  year),  as  his  mother  read  one  of  her  endless  British  
mysteries:  Marsh,  Sayers,
Innes,  Allingham.  Eating  in  that  coldness  robbed  food  of  its  taste;  
it  was  like  eating  frozen
dinners  that  had  never  seen  the  inside  of  an  oven.  Sometimes,  after, 
 he  would  go  up  to  his
room  and  lie  on  his  bed,  holding  his  griping  stomach,  and  think:  He 
 thrusts  his  fists  against
the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts.  He thought of that more and 
more since Georgie
had  died,  although  his  mother  had  taught  him  the  phrase  two  years  
before.  It  had  taken  on  a
talismanic  cast  in  his  mind:  the  day  he  could  walk  up  to  his  
mother  and  simply  speak  that
phrase  without  tripping  or  stuttering,  looking  her  right  in  the  eye  
as  he  spoke  it,  the coldness
would  break  apart;  her  eyes  would  light  up  and  she  would  hug  him  
and  say,  'Wonderful,
Billy! What a good boy! What a good boy!'

He  had,  of  course,  told  this  to  no  one.  Wild  horses  would  not  have 
 dragged  it  from  him;
neither  the  rack  nor  the  boot would have induced him to give up this 
secret fantasy, which lay
at  the  very  center  of  his  heart.  If  he  could  say  this  phrase  which 
 she  had  taught  him  casually
one  Saturday  morning  as  he  and  Georgie  sat  watching  Guy  Madison  and  
Andy  Devine  in The
Adventures of Wild Bill Hickok,  it would be like the kiss that awakened 
Sleeping Beauty from
her cold dreams to the warmer world of the fairytale prince's love.

He thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts.

Nor  did  he  tell it to his friends on that July 3rd  —  but he told them what 
his father had told
him  about  the  Derry  sewer  and  drain  systems.  He  was  a  boy  to  whom  
invention  came  easily
and  naturally  (sometimes  more  easily  than  telling  the  truth),  and  the 
 scene  he  painted  was
quite  different  from  the  scene  in  which  the  conversation  had  actually 
 taken  place:  he  and  his
old man had been watching the tube together, he said, having cups of coffee.

'Your dad lets you have coffee?' Eddie asked.

'Sh-sh-sure,' Bill said.


'Wow,'  Eddie  said.  'My  mother  would  never  let  me  have  a  coffee.  She 
 says  the  caffeine  in
it is dangerous.' He paused. 'She drinks quite a bit of it herself, though.'

'My  dad  lets  me  have  coffee  if  I  want  it,'  Beverly  said,  'but  he'd 
 kill  me  if  he  knew  I
smoked.'

'What  makes  you  so  sure  it's  in  the  sewers?'  Richie  asked,  looking  
from  Bill  to  Stan  Uris
and then back to Bill again.

'E-E-Everything  g-goes  back  t-to  th-th-that,'  Bill  said.  'The  v-voices  
Beh-he-heverly heard
c-came  from  the  d-d-drain.  And  the  bluh-blood.  When  the  c-c-clown  
ch-chased  us,  those  o-
orange buh-buh-buttons were by a suh-sewer. And Juh juh-George — '

'It  wasn't  a  clown,  Big  Bill,'  Richie  said.  'I   told  you  that.  I  
know  it's  crazy,  but  it  was  a
werewolf.' He looked at the others defensively. 'Honest to God. I saw it.'

Bill said: 'It was a werewolf for y-y-you.'

'Huh?'

Bill  said,  'D-Don't  you  s-s-see?  It  was  a  wuh-wuh-were  wolf  for  
y-you because y-you saw
that duh-humb movie at the A-A-A-Aladdin.'

'I don't get it.'

'I think I do,' Ben said quietly.

'I  went  to  the  l-l-library  and  -l looked  it  uh-uh-up,'  Bill  said.  'I 
 think  It's  a  gluh-gluh'  — he

paused, throat straining, and spat it out — 'a glamour.'

'Glammer?' Eddie asked doubtfully.

'G-G-Glamour,'  Bill  said,  and  spelled  it.  He  told  them  about  an  
encyclopedia  entry  on  the
subject  and,  a  chapter  he  had  read  in  a  book  called  Night's Truth.  
Glamour, he said, was the
Gaelic  name  for  the  creature  which  was  haunting  Derry;  other  races  
and  other  cultures  at
other  times  had  different  words  for  it,  but  they  all  meant  the  same 
 thing.  The  Plains  Indians
called  it  a  manitou,  which  sometimes  took  the  shape  of  a  
mountain-lion or an elk or an eagle.
These  same  Indians  believed  that  the  spirit  of  a  manitou  could  
sometimes  enter  them,  and  at
these  times  it  was  possible  for  them  to  shape  the  clouds  themselves  
into  representations  of
those  animals  for  which  their  houses  had  been  named.  The  Himalayans  
called  it  a  tallus  or
taelus,  which  meant  an  evil  magic  being  that could read your mind and 
then assume the shape
of  the  thing  you  were  most  afraid  of.  In  Central  Europe  it  had  
been  called  eylak,  brother of
the vurderlak, or vampire. In France it was  le  loup-garou,  or skin-changer, 
a concept that had
been   crudely   translated   as   the   werewolf,   but,   Bill   told   them, 
  le   loup-garou   (which   he
pronounced  'le  loop-garoo')  could  be  anything,  anything  at  all:  a  
wolf,  a  hawk,  a  sheep,  even
a bug.

'Did any of those articles tell you how to beat a glamour?' Beverly asked.

Bill  nodded,  but  he  didn't  look  hopeful.  'The  H-H-Himalayans  had  a  
rih-hi-hitual  to  g-get
rih-rid of i-i-it, but ih-it's pretty gruh-gruh-grue-some.'

They looked at him, not wanting to hear but needing to.

'I-I-It  was  cuh-called  the  R-R-Ritual of  Chüh-Chüd,'  Bill said, and went 
on to explain what
that  was.  If  you  were  a  Himalayan  holy-man,  you  tracked  the  taelus.  
The  taelus  stuck  its
tongue out. You stuck  yours  out.  You  and  it  overlapped  tongues  and  
then  you  both  bit  in  all
the way so you were sort of stapled together, eye to eye.

'Oh,  I  think  I'm  gonna  puke,'  Beverly  said,  rolling  over  on  the  
dirt.  Ben patted  her  back
tentatively,  then  looked  around  to  see  if  he  had  been  observed.  He  
hadn't  been;  the  others
were looking at Bill, mesmerized.

'What then?' Eddie asked.

'W-W-Well,'  Bill  said,  'this  sounds  cuh-cuh-crazy,  b-but  the  book  
s-said  that  th-then  y-you
started telling juh- jokes and rih -riddles.'

'What? Stan asked.


Bill  nodded,  his  face  that  of  a  correspondent  who  wants  you  to  know 
 — without coining
right out and saying it  —  that  he  doesn't  make  the  news  but  only  
reports  it.  'R-Right.  F-First
the  t-taelus  monster  would  tell  o-o-one,  then  y-y-you  got  to  t-t-tell 
 o-one,  and  y-you  w-w-
went o-on like thuh-that, t-tay-takin t-turns — '

Beverly  sat  up  again,  knees  against  her  chest,  hands  linked  around  
her  shins.  'I  don't  see
how people could talk with their tongues, you know, nailed together.'

Richie  immediately  ran  out  his  tongue,  gripped  it  with  his  fingers,  
and  intoned:  'My  father
works in a shit-yard!' That broke them all up for awhile even though it was a 
baby joke.

'M-Maybe  it  was  suh-suh-suhpposed  to  be  tuh-telepathy,'  Bill  said.  
'A-Anyway,  i-if the  h-

h-human laughed f-f-first in spi-hite of the p-p-p-p — '
'Pain?' Stan asked.

Bill nodded.'  —  then the  taelus  g-got  to  k-k-kill  h-him and e-e-e-eat 
him. His soul, I think.
B-But  i-if  the  muh-man  c-c-ould  make  the  t-taelus  l-laugh  f-f-first,  
it  had  to  go  away  for  a
huh-huh-hundred y-years.

'Did the book say where a thing like that would come from?' Ben asked.
Bill shook his head.

'Do you believe any of it?' Stan asked, sounding as if he wanted to scoff but 
could not quite
find the moral or mental force to do so.

Bill  shrugged  and  said,  'I  a-a-almost  d-do.'  He  seemed  about  to  say  
more,  then  shook  his

head and remained silent.

'It   explains   a   lot,'   Eddie   said   slowly.   The   clown,   the   
leper,   the   werewolf   .   .   .   '   He
looked.over at Stan. 'The dead boys, too, I guess.'

'This   sounds   like   a   job   for   Richard   Tozier,'  Richie  said,  in  
the  MovieTone  Newsreel
Announcer's Voice. 'Man of a thousand jokes and six thousand riddles.'

'If we sent you to do it, we'd all get killed,' Ben said. 'Slowly. In great 
pain.' At this they all
laughed again.

'So  what  do  we  do about it?' Stan demanded, and once again Bill could only 
shake his head

.  .  .  and  feel  he  almost  knew.  Stan  stood  up.  'Let's  go  somewhere  
else,'  he  said.  'I'm  getting
fanny fatigue.'

'I  like  it  here,'  Beverly  said.  'It's  shady  and  nice.'  She  glanced  
at Stan. 'I suppose you want
to do something babyish like going down to the dump and breaking bottles with 
rocks.'

'I  like  breaking  bottles  with  rocks,'  Richie  said,  standing  up  beside 
 Stan.  'It's  the  j.d.  in  me,
baby.'  He  flipped  up  his  collar  and  began to stalk around like James 
Dean in  Rebel Without a
Cause.  'They  hurt  me,'  he  said,  looking  moody  and  scratching  his  
chest.  'You  know,  like
wow. My parents. School. So-SY-ety. Everyone. It's pressure, baby. It's — '

'It's shit,' Beverly said, and sighed.

'I've  got  some  firecrackers,'  Stan  said,  and  they  forgot  all  about  
glamours,  manitous,  and
Richie's  bad  James  Dean  imitation  as  Stan  produced  a  package  of  
Black  Cats  from  his  hip
pocket. Even Bill was impressed.

'J-Jesus Christ, Stuh-Stuh-han, w-where did you g-g-get thuh-hose?'

'From    this    fat    kid    that    I    go    to    synagogue    with    
sometimes,'    Stan    said.    'I
traded a bunch of Superman and Little Lulu funnybooks for em.'

'Let's  shoot  em  off!'  Richie  cried,  nearly  apoplectic  in  his  joy.  
'Let's  go  shoot  em  off,
Stanny,  I  won't  tell  any  more  guys  you  and  your  dad  killed  Christ,  
I  promise,  what  do  you
say? I'll tell em your nose is small, Stanny! I'll tell em you're not 
circumcised!'

At  this  Beverly  began  to  shriek  with  laughter  and  actually  appeared  
to  be  approaching
apoplexy  before  covering  her  face  with  her  hands.  Bill  began  to  
laugh,  Eddie  began  to  laugh,
and  after  a  moment  even  Stan  joined  in.  The  sound  of  it  drifted  
across  the  broad  shallow
expanse  of  the  Kenduskeag  on  that  day  before  July  4th,  a  
summer-sound,  as  bright  as  the
sunrays  darting  off  the  water,  and  none  of  them  saw  the  orange  eyes 
 staring  at  them  from  a


tangle  of  brambles  and  sterile  blackberry  bushes  to  their  left.  This  
brambly  patch  scrubbed
the  entire  bank  for  thirty  feet,  and  in  the  center  of  it  was  one  
of  Ben's  Morlock  holes.  It  was
from this raised concrete pipe that the eyes, each more than two feet across, 
stared.

5

The  reason  Mike  ran  afoul  of  Henry  Bowers  and  his  not-so-merry band 
on that same day was
because  the  next day  was  the  Glorious  Fourth.  The  Church  School  had  
a  band  in  which  Mike
played  the  trombone.  On  the  Fourth,  the  band  would  march  in  the  
annual  holiday  parade,
playing  'The  Battle  Hymn  of  the  Republic,'  'Onward  Christian  
Soldiers,'  and  'America  the
Beautiful.'  This  was  an  occasion  that  Mike  had  been  looking  forward  
to  for  over  a  month.  He
walked  to  the  final  rehearsal  because  his  bike  had  a  busted  chain.  
The  rehearsal  was  not
scheduled  until  two-thirty,  but  he  left  at  one  because  he  wanted  to  
polish  his  trombone, which
was  stored  in  the  school's  music  room,  until  it  glowed.  Although  his 
 trombone-playing  was
really  not  much  better  than  Richie's  Voices,  he  was  fond  of  the  
instrument,  and  whenever  he
felt  blue  a  half  an  hour  of  foghorning  Sousa  marches,  hymns,  or  
patriotic  airs  cheered  hun
right  up  again.  There  was  a  can  of  Saddler's  brass  polish  in  one  
of  the  flap  pockets  of  his
khaki  shirt  and  two  or  three  clean  rags  were  dangling  from  the  hip  
pocket  of  his  jeans.  The
thought   of   Henry   Bowers   was   the   furthest   thing  from  his  mind.  
A  glance  behind  as  he
approached  Neibolt  Street  and  the  Church  School  would  have  changed  
his  mind  in  a  hurry,
because  Henry,  Victor,  Belch,  Peter  Gordon,  and  Moose  Sadler  were  
spread  across  the  road
behind  him.  If  they  had  left  the  Bowers  house  five  minutes  later,  
Mike  would  have  been  out
of  sight  over  the  crest  of  the  next  hill;  the  apocalyptic  rockfight  
and  everything  that  followed
it might have happened differently, or not at all.

But  it  was  Mike  himself,  years  later,  who  advanced  the  idea  that  
perhaps  none  of  them

were  entirely  their  own  masters  in  the  events  of  that  summer;  that  
if  luck  and  free  will  had
played  parts,  then  their  roles  had  been  narrow  ones.  He  would  point  
out  a  number  of  these
suspicious  coincidences  to  the  others  at  their  reunion  lunch,  but  
there  was  at  least  one  of
which  he  was  unaware.  The  meeting  in  the  Barrens  that  day  broke  up  
when  Stan  Uris
produced  the  Black  Cats  and  the  Losers'  Club  headed  toward  the  dump  
to  shoot  them  off.
And  Victor,  Belch,  and  the  others  had  come  out  to  the  Bowers  farm  
because  Henry  had
firecrackers,  cherry-bombs,  and  M-80s  (the  possession  of  these  last  
would  a  few  years  hence
become  a  felony).  The  big  boys  were  planning  to  go  down  beyond  the  
trainyard  coalpit  and
explode Henry's treasur es.

None  of  them,  not  even  Belch,  went  out  to  the  Bowers  farm  under  
ordinary  circumstances

—  primarily  because  of  Henry's  crazy  father  but  also  because  they  
always  ended  up  helping
Henry  do  his  chores:  the  weeding,  the  endless  rock-picking,  the  
lugging  of  wood,  the  toting
of  water,  the  pitching  of  hay,  the  picking  of  whatever  happened  to  
be  ripe  at  the  time  of  the
season  —  peas, cukes,  tomatoes,  potatoes. These  boys were not exactly  
allergic  to  work, but
they  had  plenty  to  do  at  their  own  places  without  sweating  for  
Henry's  kooky  father,  who
didn't  much  care  who  he  hit  (he  had  once  taken  a  length  of  
stovewood  to  Victor  Criss  when
the  boy  dropped  a  basket  of  tomatoes  he  was  lugging  out  to  the  
roadside  stand).  Getting
whopped  with  a  chunk  of  birch  was  bad  enough; what made it worse was 
that Butch Bowers
had chanted 'I'm gonna kill all the Nips! I'm gonna kill all the fuckin Nips!' 
when he did it.

Dumb  as  he  was,  Belch  Huggins  had  expressed  it  best:  'I  don't  fuck  
with  crazy  people,'  he
told Victor one day two years before. Victor had laughed and agreed.

But the siren-song of all those firecrackers had been too great to be 
withstood.

Tell  you  what,  Henry,'  Victor  said  when  Henry  called  him  up  that  
morning  at  nine  and
invited him out. 'I'll meet you at the coalpit around one o'clock, what do you 
say?'


'You  show  up  at  the  coalpit  around  one  and  I'm  not  gonna  be  
there,'  Henry  replied.  'I  got
too  many  chores.  If  you  show  up  at  the  coalpit  around  three,  I  
will be there. And the first M-
80 is going to go right up your old tan track, Vie.'

Vie hesitated, then agreed to come over and help with the chores.

The  others  came  as  well,  and  with  the  five  of  them,  all  big  boys,  
working  like  fiends
around  the  Bowers  place,  they  got  all  the  chores  finished  by  early  
afternoon.  When  Henry
asked  his  father  if  he  could  go,  Bowers  the  elder  simply  waved  a  
languid  hand  at  his  son.
Butch  was  settled  in  for  the  afternoon  on  the  back  porch,  a  quart  
milk-bottle  filled  with
exquisitely  hard  cider  by  his  rocker,  his  Philco  portable  radio  on  
the  porch  rail  (later  that
afternoon  the  Red  Sox  would  be  playing  the  Washington  Senators,  a  
prospect  that  would
have  given  a  man  who  was  not  crazy  a  bad  case  of  cold  chills).  An 
 unsheathed  Japanese
sword  lay  across  Butch's  lap,  a  war souvenir which, Butch said, he had 
taken off the body of
a  dying  Nip  on  the  island  of  Tarawa  (he  had  actually  traded  six  
bottles  of  Budweiser  and
three  joysticks  for  the  sword  in  Honolulu).  Lately  Butch  almost  
always  got  out  his  sword
when  he  drank.  And  since  all  of  the  boys,  including  Henry  himself,  
were  secretly  convinced
that  sooner  or  later  he  would  use  it  on  someone,  it  was  best  to  
be  far  away  when  it  made  its
appearance on Butch's lap.

The  boys  had  no  more  than  stepped  out  into  the  road  when  Henry  
spied  Mike  Hanlon  up
ahead.   'It's   the   nigger!'   he   said,   his   eyes   lighting   up   
like   the   eyes   of   a   small   child
contemplating Santa Claus's imminent arrival on Christmas Eve.

'The  nigger?'  Belch  Huggins  looked  puzzled  —  he  had  seen  the  Hanlons 
 only  rarely — and
then his dim eyes lit up. 'Oh yeah! The nigger! Let's get him, Henry!'

Belch  broke  into  a  thunderous  trot.  The  others  were  following  suit  
when  Henry  grabbed
Belch   and   hauled   him   back.   Henry   had   more   experience   than   
the   others   chasing   Mike
Hanlon,  and  he  knew  that  catching  him  was  easier  said  than  done.  
That  black  boy  could
move.

'He don't see us. Let's just walk fast till he does. Cut the distance.'

They  did  so.  An  observer  might  have  been  amused:  the  five  of  them  
looked  as  if  they  were
trying  out  for  that  peculiar  Olympic  walking  competition.  Moose  
Sadler's  considerable  belly
joggled  up  and  down  inside  his  Derry  High  School  tee-shirt.  Sweat  
rolled  down  Belch's  face,
which  soon  grew  red.  But  the  distance  between  them  and  Mike  closed  
—  two hundred yards,
a  hundred  and  fifty  yards,  a  hundred   —  and  so  far  Little  Black  
Sambo  hadn't  looked  back.
They could hear him whistling.

'What you gonna do to him, Henry?' Victor Criss asked in a low voice. He 
sounded merely
interested,  but  in  truth  he  was  worried.  Just  lately  Henry  had  begun 
 to  worry  him  more  and
more.  He  wouldn't  care  if  Henry  wanted  them  to  beat  the  Hanlon  kid  
up,  maybe  even  rip  his
shut off or throw his pants and underwear up in a tree, but he was not sure 
that was all Henry
had  in  mind.  This  year  there  had  been  several  unpleasant  encounters  
with  the  children  from
Derry  Elementary  Henry  referred  to  as  'the  little  shits.'  Henry  was  
used  to  dominating  and
terrorizing  the  little  shits,  but  since  March  he  had  been  balked  by  
them  time  and time again.
Henry and his friends had chased one of them, the four -eyes Tozier kid, into 
Freese's, and had
lost  him  somehow  just  when  it  seemed  his  ass  was  surely  theirs.  
Then,  on  the  last  day  of
school, the Hanscom kid —

But Victor didn't like to think of that.

What  worried  him,  simply,  was  this:  Henry  might  go  TOO  FAR  Just  
what  TOO  FAR
might  be  was  something  Victor  didn't  like  to  think  of  .  .  .  but  
his  uneasy  heart  had  prompted
the question just the same.

'We're  gonna  catch  him  and  take  him  down to that coalpit,' Henry said. 
'I thought we'd put
a couple of firecrackers in his shoes and see if he dances.'

'But not the M-80s, Henry, right?'


If  Henry  intended  something  like  that  Victor  was  going  to  take  a  
powder.  An  M-80 in each
shoe would blow that nigger's feet off, and that was much TOO FAR

'I've  got  only  four  of  those,'  Henry  said,  not  taking  his  eyes  off  
Mike  Hanlon's  back.  They
had  closed  the  distance  to  seventy-five  yards  now  and  he  also  spoke  
in  a  low  voice.  'You
think I'd waste two of em on a fuckin nightfighter?'

'No, Henry. Course not.'

'We'll just put a couple of Black Cats in his loafers,' Henry said, 'then strip 
him bareass and
throw his clothes down into the Barrens. Maybe he'll catch poison ivy going 
after them.'

'We  gotta  roll  im  in  the  coal,  too,'  Belch  said,  his  formerly  dim  
eyes  now  glowing  brightly.

'Okay, Henry? Is that cool?'

'Cool  as  a  moose,'  Henry  said  in  a  casual  way  Victor  didn't  quite  
like.  'We'll  roll  im  in  the
coal,  just  like  I  rolled  im  in  the  mud  that  other  time.  And  .  .  
.  '  Henry  grinned,  showing  teeth
that  were  already  beginning  to  rot  at  the  age  of  twelve.  'And  I  
got  something  to  tell  him.  I
don't think he heard when I told im before.'

'What's  that,  Henry?'  Peter  asked.  Peter  Gordon  was  merely  interested  
and  excited.  He
came  from  one  of  Berry's  'good  families';  he  lived  on  West  Broadway  
and  in  two  years  he
would be sent to prep school in Groton  — or so he believed on that July 3rd. 
He was brighter
than Vie Criss, but had not hung around long enough to understand how Henry was 
eroding.

'You'll find out,' Henry said. 'Now shut up. We're gettin close.'

They  were  twenty-five  yards  behind  Mike  and  Henry  was  just  opening  
his  mouth  to  give
the  order  to  charge  when  Moose  Sadler  set  off  the  first  firecracker  
of  the  day.  Moose  had
eaten  three  plates  of  baked  beans  the  night  before,  and  the  fart  
was  almost  as  loud  as  a
shotgun blast.

Mike looked around. Henry saw his eyes widen.
'Get him!' Henry howled.

Mike froze for a moment; then he took off, running for his life.

6

The  Losers  wound  their  way  through  the  bamboo  in  the  Barrens  in  
this  order:  Bill;  Richie;
Beverly  behind  Richie,  walking  slim  and  pretty  in  bluejeans  and  a  
white  sleeveless  blouse,
zoris  on  her  feet;  then  Ben,  trying  not  to  puff  too  loudly  
(although  it  was  eighty-one that day,
he  was  wearing  one  of  his  baggy  sweatshirts);  Stan;  Eddie  bringing  
up  the  rear,  the  snout  of
his  aspirator  poking  out  of  his  right  front  pants  pocket.  Bill  had  
fallen  into  a  'jungle -safari'
fantasy,  as  he  often  did  when  walking  through  this  part  of  the  
Barrens.  The  bamboo  was  high
and  white,  limiting  visibility  to  the  path  they  had  made  through  
here.  The  earth  was  black  and
squelchy,  with  sodden  patches  that  had  to  be  avoided  or  jumped  over 
if you didn't want to get
mud     in  your  shoes.  The  puddles  of  standing  water  had  oddly  flat  
rainbow  colors.  The  air  had
a reeky smell that was half the dump and half rotting vegetation.

Bill  halted  one  turn  away  from  the  Kenduskeag  and  turned  back  to  
Richie.  T-T-Tiger up

ahead, T-T-Tozier.'

Richie nodded and turned back to Beverly. 'Tiger,' he breathed.
'Tiger,' she told Ben.                                                          
       :

'Man-eater?' Ben asked, holding his breath to keep from panting.
'There's blood all over him,' Beverly said.

'Man-eating tiger,' Ben muttered to Stan, and he passed the news back to Eddie, 
whose thin
face was hectic with excitement.

They   faded   into   the   bamboo,   leaving   the   path   of   black   earth 
  that   looped   through   it
magically  bare.  The  tiger  passed  in  front  of  them  and  all  of  them  
nearly  saw  it:  heavy,


perhaps  four  hundred  pounds,  its  muscles  moving  with  grace  and  power  
beneath  the  silk  of  its
striped  pelt.  They  nearly  saw  its  green  eyes,  and  the  flecks  of  
blood  around  its  snout  from  the
last batch of pygmy warriors it had eaten alive.

The  bamboo  rattled  faintly,  a  noise  both  musical  and  eerie,  and  then 
 was  still  again.  It
might  have  been  a  breath  of  summer  breeze  .  .  .  or  it  might  have  
been  the  passage  of  an
African tiger on its way toward the Old Cape side of the Barrens.

'Gone,'  Bill  said.  He  let  out  a  pent-up  breath  and  stepped  out  onto 
 the  path  again.  The
others followed suit.

Richie  was  the  only  one  who  had  come  armed:  he  produced  a  
cap-pistol  with  a  friction-

taped  handgrip.  'I  could  have  had  a clear shot at him if you'd moved, Big 
Bill,' he said grimly.
He pushed the bridge of his old glasses up on his nose with the muzzle of the 
gun.

'There's  Wuh-Wuh-Watusis  around  h-h-here,'  Bill  said.  'C -C-Can't  
rih-risk  a  shot.  Y-You
w-want them down on t-t-top of us?'

'Oh,' Richie said, convinced.

Bill  made  a  come-on  gesture  with  his  arm  and  they  were  back  on  the 
 path  again,  which
narrowed into a neck at the end of the bamboo patch. They stepped out onto the 
bank of the
Kenduskeag,  where  a  series  of  stepping-stones led across the river. Ben 
had shown them how
to  place  them.  You  got  a  big  rock  and  plopped  it  in  the  water,  
then  you  got  a  second  and
plopped it in the water while you were stepping on the first, then you got a 
third and plopped
it  in  the  water  while  you  were  stepping  on  the  second,  and  so  on  
until  you  were  all  the  way
across  the  river  (which  here,  and  at  this  time  of  year,  was  less  
than  a  foot  deep  and  shaled
with  tawny  sandbars)  with  your  feet  still  dry.  The  trick  was  so  
simple  it  was  damn  near
babyish,  but  none  of  them  had  seen  it  until  Ben  pointed  it  out.  He 
 was  good  at  stuff  like  that,
but when he showed you he never made you feel like a dummy.

They  went  down  the  bank  in  single  file  and  started  across  the  dry  
backs  of  the  rocks  they
had planted.

'Bill!' Beverly called urgently.

He  froze  at  once,  not  looking  back,  arms  held  out.  The  water  
chuckled  and  rilled  around
him. 'What?'

'There's  piranha  fish  in  here!  I  saw  them  eat  a  whole  cow  two  days 
 ago.  A  minute  after  it
fell in, there was nothing but bones. Don't fall off!'

'Right,' Bill said. 'Be careful, men.'

They   teetered   their   way   across   the   rocks.   A   freight-train   
charged   by   on   the   railway
embankment  as  Eddie  Kaspbrak  neared  the  halfway  point,  and  the  sudden 
 blast  of  its  airhorn
caused  him  to  jiggle  on  the  edge  of  balance.  He  looked  into  the  
bright  water  and  for  one
moment,  between  the  sunnxx¹  ashes  that  darted  arrows  of  light  into  
his  eyes,  he  actually  saw
the  cruising  piranhas.  They  were  not  part  of  the  make-believe  that  
went  with  Bill's  jungle
safari  fantasy;  he  was  quite  sure  of  that.  The  fish  he  saw  looked  
like  oversized  goldfish  with
the  great  ugly  jaws  of  catfish  or  groupers.  Sawteeth  protruded  
between  their  thick  lips  and,
like  goldfish,  they  were  orange. As  orange  as  the  fluffy  pompoms  you  
sometimes  saw  on  the
suits the clowns wore at the circus.

They circled in the shallow water, gnashing.

Eddie pin wheeled his arms.  I'm going in,  he thought. I'm going in and 
they'll eat me alive

—

Then Stanley Uris gripped his wrist firmly and brought him back to dead center.
'Close call,' Stan said. 'If you fell in, your mother'd give you heck.'

Thoughts  of  his  mother  were,  for  once,  the  furthest  things  from  
Eddie's  mind.  The  others

had  gained  the  far  bank  now  and  were  counting  cars  on  the  freight.  
Eddie  stared  wildly  into
Stan's  eyes,  then  looked  into  the  water  again.  He  saw  a  potato-chip  
bag  go  dancing  by,  but
that was all. He looked up at Stan again.


'Stan, I saw — '

—   'What?'

Eddie shook his head. 'Nothing, I guess,' he said. 'I'm just a little

(but they were there yes they were and they would have eaten me alive)

' —    jumpy. The tiger, I guess. Keep going.'

This  western  bank  of  the  Kenduskeag  —  the  Old  Cape  bank  — was  a 
quagmire of mud
during  rainy  weather  and  the  spring  runoff,  but  there  had  been  no  
heavy  rain  in  Derry  for  two
weeks  or  more  and  the  bank  had  dried  to  an  alien  crack-glaze  from  
which  several  of  those
cement  cylinders  poked,  casting  grim  little  shadows.  About  twenty  
yards  farther  down,  a
cement  pipe  jutted  out  over  the  Kenduskeag  and  spilled  a  steady  thin 
 stream  of  foul-looking
brown water into the river.

Ben said quietly, 'It's creepy here,' and the others nodded.

Bill led them up the dry bank and  back  into  the  heavy  shrubbery,  where  
bugs  whirred  and
chiggers  chigged.  Every  now  and  then  there  would  be  a  heavy  ruffle  
of  wings  as  a  bird  took
off.  Once  a  squirrel  ran  across  their  path,  and about five minutes 
later, as they approached the
low  wrinkle  of  ridge  that  guarded  the  town  dump's  blind  side,  a  
large  rat  with  a  bit  of
cellophane  caught  in  its  whiskers  trundled  in  front  of  Bill,  passing  
along  its  own  secret  run
through its own microcosmic wilderness.

The  smell  of  the  dump  was  now  clear  and  pungent;  a  black  column  of 
 smoke  rose  in  the
sky.  The  ground,  while  still  heavily  overgrown  except  for  their  own  
narrow  path,  began  to  be
strewn  with  litter.  Bill  had  dubbed  this  'dump-dandruff,'  and  Richie  
had  been  delighted;  he
had  laughed  almost  until  he  cried.  'You  ought  to  write  that  down,  
Big  Bill,'  he  said.  'That's
really good.'

Papers  caught  on  branches  wavered  and  flapped  like  cut-rate  pennants;  
here  was  a  silver
gleam  of  summer  sun  reflected  from  a  clutch  of  tin  cans  lying  at  
the  bottom  of  a  green and
tangled   hollow;   there   the   hotter   reflection   of   sunrays   bouncing 
  off   a   broken   beer   bottle.
Beverly  spied  a  babydoll,  its  plastic  skin  so  brightly  pink  it  
looked  almost  boiled.  She  picked
it     up,  then  dropped  it  with  a  little  cry  as  she  saw  the  
whitish-gray  beetles  squirming  from
beneath its moldy skirt and down its rotting legs. She rubbed her fingers on 
her jeans.

They climbed to the top of the ridge and looked down into the dump.


'Oh  shit,'  Bill  said,  and  jammed  his  hands  into  his  pockets  as
him.

ht e  others  gathered  around

They  were  burning  the  northern  end  today,  but  here,  at  their  end,  
the  dumpkeeper  (he  was,
in   fact,   Armando   Fazio,   Mandy   to   his   friends,   and   the   
bachelor   brother   of   the   Derry
Elementary  School  janitor)  was  tinkering  on  the  World  War  II  D-9 
'dozer he used to push the
crap    into  piles  for  burning.  His  shirt  was  off,  and  the  big  
portable  radio  sitting  under  the
canvas   parasol   on   the   'dozer's   seat   was   putting   out   the   Red 
  Sox  —  Senators  pregame
festivities.

'Can't  go  down  there,' Ben agreed. Mandy Fazio was not a bad guy, but when 
he saw kids
in the dump he ran them off at once  — because of the rats, because of the 
poison he regularly
sowed  to  keep  the  rat  population  down,  because  of  the  potential  for  
cuts,  falls,  and  burns  .  . .
but  mostly  because  he  believed  a  dump  was  no  place  for  children  to  
be.  'Ain't  you  nice?'  he
would yell at the kids he spied who had been drawn to the dump with their .22s 
to plink away
at  bottles  (or  rats,  or  seagulls)  or  by  the  exotic  fascination  of d' 
ump-picking': you might find a
toy  that  still  worked,  a  chair  that  could  be  mended  for  a  
clubhouse,  or  a  junked  TV  with  the
picture-tube still intact  —  if  you  threw  a  rock  through  one  of  these  
there  was  a  very  satisfying
explosion. 'Ain't you kids  nice?' Mandy would bellow (he bellowed not because 
he was angry
but  because  he  was  deaf  and  wore  no  hearing-aid).  'Dintchore  folks  
teach  you  to  be  nice?
Nice  boys  and  girls  don't  play  in  the  dump!  Go  to  the  park!  Go  to 
 the  liberry!  Go  down  to
Community House and play box-hockey! Be nice!'


'Nope,' Richie said. 'Guess the dump's out.'

They all sat down for a few moments to watch Mandy work on his 'dozer, hoping 
he would
give  up  and  go  away  but  not  really  believing  he  would:  the  presence 
 of  the  radio  suggested
Mandy  intended  to  stay  all  afternoon.  It  was  enough  to  piss  off  the 
 Pope,  Bill  thought.  There
was  really  no  better  place  to  come  with  firecrackers  than  the  dump.  
You  could  put  them
under  tin  cans  and  then  watch  the  cans  fly  into  the  air  when  the  
firecrackers  went  off,  or  you
could  light  the  fuses  and  drop  them  into  bottles  and  then  run  like  
hell.  The  bottles  didn't
always break, but usually they did.

'Wish  we  had  some  M-80s,' Richie sighed, unaware of how soon one would be 
chucked at

his head.

'My  mother  says  people  ought  to  be  happy  with  what  they  have,'  
Eddie  said  so  solemnly
that they all laughed.

When the laughter died away, they all looked toward Bill again.

Bill  thought  about  it  and  then  said,  'I  nuh-know  a  p-place.  There's  
an  old  gruh-gruh-gravel-
pit at the end of the Bun-Barrens by the t-t-trainyards — '

'Yeah!' Stan said, getting to his feet. 'I know that place! You're a genius, 
Bill!'
'They'll really echo there,' Beverly agreed.

'Well, let's go,' Richie said.

The  six  of  them,  one  shy  of  the  magic  number,  walked  along  the  
brow  of  the  hill  which
circled  the  dump.  Mandy  Fazio  glanced  up  once  and  saw  them  
silhouetted  against  the  blue
sky  like  Indians  out  on  a  raiding  party.  He  thought  about  hollering  
at  them — the Barrens was
no place for kids  —  and  then  he  turned  back  to  his  work  instead.  At  
least  they  weren't  in  his
dump.

7

Mike  Hanlon  ran  past  the  Church  School  without  pausing  and  pelted  
straight  up  Neibolt
Street toward the Derry trainyards. There was a janitor at  NCS, but Mr Gendron 
was very old
and even deafer than Mandy Fazio. Also, he liked to spend most of his summer 
days asleep in
the  basement  by  the  summer-silent  boiler,  stretched  out  in  a  battered 
 old  reclining  chair  with
the Derry  News  in  his  lap.  Mike  would still be pounding on the door and 
shouting for the old
man to let him in when Henry Bowers came up behind him and tore his freaking 
head off.

So Mike just ran.

But  not  blindly;  he  was  trying  to  pace  himself,  trying  to  control  
his  breathing,  not  yet going
all  out.  Henry,  Belch,  and  Moose  Sadler  presented  no  problems;  even  
relatively  fresh  they  ran
like  wounded  buffalo.  Victor  Criss  and  Peter  Gordon,  however,  were  
much  faster.  As  Mike
passed the house where Bill and Richie had seen the clown  — or the werewolf  — 
he snapped
a glance back and was alarmed to see that Peter Gordon had almost closed the 
distance. Peter
was   grinning   cheerfully   —   a  steeplechase  grin,  a  full-out  polo  
grin,  a  pip-pip -jolly-good-
show  grin,  and  Mike  thought:  I  wonder  if  he'd  grin  that  way  if  he  
knew  what's  going  to
happen if they catch me . . . Does he think they're just going to say 'Tag, 
you're it,' and run
away?

As  the  trainyard  gate  with  its  sign  —  PRIVATE  PROPERTY  KEEP  OUT  
VIOLATORS  WILL  BE
PROSECUTED  —  loomed  up,  Mike  was forced to let himself out to the limit. 
There was no pain

—  his  breathing  was  rapid  yet  still  controlled   —  but  he  knew  
everything  was  going  to  start

hurting  if  he  had  to  keep  this  pace  up  for  long.  The  gate  was  
standing  halfway  open.  He
snapped  a  second  look  back  and  saw  that  he'd  pulled  away  from  Peter 
 again.  Victor  was
perhaps  ten  paces  behind  Peter,  the  others  now  forty  or  fifty  yards  
back.  Even  in  that  quick
glance Mike could see the black anger on Henry's face.


He  skittered  through  the  opening,  whirled, and slammed the gate closed. He 
heard the click
as  it  latched.  A  moment  later  Peter  Gordon  slammed  into  the  
chainlink,  and  a  moment  after
that,  Victor  Criss  ran  up  beside  him.  Peter's  smile  was  gone;  a  
sulky,  balked  look  had
replaced  it.  He  grabbed  for  the  latch,  but  of  course  there  was  
none:  the  latch  was  on  the
inside.

Incredibly, he said: 'Come on, kid, open the gate. That's not fair.'
'What's your idea of fair?' Mike asked, panting. 'Five against one?'
'Fair-up,' Peter repeated, as if he had not heard Mike at all.

Mike looked at Victor, saw the troubled look in Victor's eyes. He started to 
speak, but that

was when the others pulled up to the gate.

'Open  up,  nigger!'  Henry  bawled.  He  began  to  shake  the  chainlink  
with  such  ferocity that
Peter looked at him, startled. 'Open up! Open up right now!'

'I won't,' Mike said quietly.

'Open up!' Belch shouted. 'Open up, ya fuckin jigaboo!'

Mike   backed   away   from   the   gate,   his   heart   beating   heavily   
in   his   chest.   He   couldn't
remember  ever  being  quite  this  scared,  quite  this  upset.  They  lined  
their  side  of  the  gate,
shouting  at  him,  calling  him  names  for  nigger  he  had  never  dreamed  
existed   —  nightfighter,
Ubangi,  spade,  blackberry,  junglebunny,  others.  He  was  barely  aware  
that  Henry  was  taking
something  from  his  pocket,  that  he  had  popped  a  wooden  match  alight  
with  his  thumbnail  —
and  then  a  round  red  something  came  over  the  fence  and  he  flinched  
instinctively  away  as  the
cherry-bomb exploded to his left, kicking up dust.

The  bang  silenced  them  all  for  a  moment  —  Mike stared unbelievingly at 
them through the

fence,  and  they  stared  back.  Peter  Gordon  looked  utterly  shocked,  and 
 even  Belch  looked
stunned.

They're  ascared  of  him  now,  Mike  thought  suddenly,  and  a  new  voice  
spoke inside of him,
perhaps  for  the  first  time,  a  voice  that  was  disturbingly  adult.  
They're ascared, but that won't
stop them. You got to get away, Mikey, or something's going to happen. Not all 
of them will
want it to happen, maybe  —  not Victor and maybe not Peter Gordon — but it 
will happen
anyway because Henry will make it ' happen. So get away. Get away fast.

He backed up another two or three steps and then Henry Bowers said: 'I was the 
one killed
your dog, nigger.'

Mike  froze,  feeling  as  if  he  had  been  hit  in  the  belly  with  a  
bowling  ball.  He  stared  into
Henry  Bowers's  eyes  and  understood  that  Henry  was  telling  the  simple  
truth:  he  had  killed  Mr
Chips.

That  moment  of  understanding  seemed  nearly  eternal  to  Mike  —  looking  
into  Henry's
crazed  sweat-ringed  eyes  and  his  rage-blackened  face,  it  seemed  to  
him  that  he  understood  a
great  many  things  for  the  first  time,  and  the  fact  that  Henry  was  
far  crazier  than  Mike  had
ever  dreamed  was  only  the  least  of  them.  He  realized  above  all  that 
 the  world  was  not kind,
and it was more this than the news itself that forced the cry from him: 'You 
honky chickenshit
bastard!'

Henry  uttered  a  shriek  of  rage  and  attacked  the  fence,  monkeying  his 
 way  toward  the  top
with  a  brute  strength  that  was  terrifying.  Mike  paused  a  moment  
longer,  wanting  to  see  if  that
adult  voice  that  had  spoken  inside  had  been  a  true  voice,  and  yes,  
it  had  been  true:  after  the
slightest hesitation, the others spread out and also began to climb.

Mike  turned  and  ran  again,  sprinting  across the  trainyards,  his  shadow 
 trailing  squat  at  his
feet.  The  freight  which  the  Losers  had  seen  crossing  the  Barrens  was 
 long  gone  now,  and
there  was  no  sound  but  Mike's  own  breathing  in  his  ears  and  the  
musical  jingle  of  chainlink
as Henry and the others climbed the fence.

Mike ran across one triple set of tracks, his sneakers kicking back cinders as 
he ran across

the  space  between.  He  stumbled  crossing  the  second  set  of  tracks,  
and  felt  pain  flare  briefly  in


his ankle. He got up and ran on again. He heard a thud as Henry jumped down 
from the top of
the fence behind him. 'Here I come for your ass, nigger!' Henry bawled.

Mike's  reasoning  self  had  decided  that  the  Barrens  were  his  only  
chance  now.  If  he  could
get  down  there  he  could  hide  in  the  tangles   of  underbrush,  in  the  
bamboo  .  .  .  or,  if  things
became really desperate, he could climb into one of the drainpipes and wait it 
out.

He could do those things, maybe . . . but there was a hot spark of fury in his 
chest that had
nothing  to  do  with  his  reasoning  self.  He  could  understand  Henry  
chasing  after  him  when  he
got the chance, but Mr Chips? . . . killing Mr Chips?  My DOG wasn't a nigger, 
you cheapshit
bastard, Mike thought as he ran, and the bewildered anger grew.

Now he heard another voice, this one his father's.  I don't want you to make a 
career out of
running away . . . and what it all comes down to is that you have to be careful 
where you take
your stand. You have to ask yourself if Henry Bowers is worth the trouble . . .

Mike  had  been  running  a  straight  line  across  the  trainyards  toward  
the  storage  quonsets.
Beyond  them  another  chainlink  fence  divided  the  trainyards  from  the  
Barrens.  He  had  been
planning  to  scale  that  fence  and  jump  over  to  the  other  side.  
Instead  he  veered  hard  right,
toward the gravel-pit.

This  gravel-pit  had  been  used  as  a  coalpit  until  1935  or  so  —  it 
had been a ' stoking-point
for  the  trains  which  ran  through  the  Derry  yards.  Then  the  diesels  
came,  and  the  electrics.  For
a  number  of  years  after  the  coal  was  gone  (much of the remainder 
stolen by people with coal-
fired  furnaces)  a  local  contractor  had  dug  gravel  there,  but  he  went 
 bust  in  1955  and  since
then  the  pit  had  been  deserted.  A  spur  railroad  line  still  ran  in  
a  loop  up  to  the  pit  and  then
back  toward  the  switching-yards,  but  the  tracks  were  dull  with  rust,  
and  ragweed  grew  up
between  the  rotting  ties.  These  same  weeds  grew  in  the  pit  itself,  
vying  for  space  with
goldenrod  and  nodding  sunflowers.  Amid  the  vegetation  there  was  still  
plenty  of  slag  coal   —
the   stuff people had once called 'clinkers.'

As  Mike  ran  toward  this  place,  he  took  his  shirt  off.  He  reached  
the  run  of  the  pit  and
looked  back.  Henry  was  coming  across  the  tracks,  his  buddies  spread  
out  around  him.  That
was okay, maybe.

Moving  as  quickly  as  he  could,  using  his  shirt  for  a  bindle,  Mike  
picked  up  half  a  dozen

handfuls  of  hard  clinkers.  Then  he  ran  back  toward  the  fence,  
swinging  his  shirt  by  the  arms.
Instead  of  climbing  the  fence  when  he  reached  it,  he  turned  so  his  
back  was  against  it. He
dumped the coal out of his shirt, stooped, and picked up a couple of chunks.

Henry  didn't  see  the  coal;  he  only  saw  that  he  had  the  nigger  
trapped  against  the  fence.  He
sprinted toward him, yelling.

'This is for my dog, you bastard!'  Mike crie d, unaware that he had begun to 
cry. He threw
one  of  the  chunks  of  coal  overhand.  It  flew  in  a  hard  direct  line. 
 It  struck  Henry's  forehead
with  a  loud  bonk!  and  then  rebounded  into  the  air.  Henry  stumbled  
to  his  knees.  His  hands
went to his head. Blood seeped through his fingers at once, like a magician's 
surprise.

The  others  skidded  to  a  stop,  their  faces  stamped  with  identical  
expressions  of  disbelief.
Henry  uttered  a  high  scream  of  pain  and  got  to  his  feet  again,  
still  holding  his  head.  Mike
threw  another chunk of coal. Henry ducked. He began to walk toward Mike, and 
when Mike
threw  a  third  chunk  of  coal,  Henry  removed  one  hand  from  his  gashed 
 forehead  and  batted
the chunk of coal almost casually aside. He was grinning.

'Oh,  you're  gonna  get  such a  surprise,'  he  said.  'Such  a  —  OH MY 
GAWD!'  Henry tried to
say more, but only inarticulate gargling noises emerged from his mouth.

Mike had pegged another chunk of coal and this one had struck Henry square in 
the throat.

Henry  buckled  to  his  knees  again.  Peter  Gordon  gaped.  Moose  Sadler's  
brow  was  furrowed,
as if he were trying to figure out a difficult math problem.

'What  are  you  guys  waiting  for?'  Henry managed. Blood seeped between his 
fingers. His

voice sounded rusty and foreign. 'Get him! Get the little cocksucker!'


Mike  didn't  wait  to  see  if  they  would  obey  or  not.  He  dropped  his  
shirt  and  leaped  at  the
fence.  He  began  to  pull  himself  up  toward  the  top  and  then  he  felt 
 rough  hands  grab  his  foot.
He  looked  down  and  saw  Henry  Bowers's  contorted  face,  smeared  by  
blood  and  coal.  Mike
yanked  his  foot  up.  His  sneaker  came  off  in  Henry's  hand.  He  
pistoned  his  bare  foot  down
into   Henry's   face   and   heard   something   crunch.   Henry   screamed   
again   and   staggered
backward, now holding his spouting nose.

Another  hand   —  Belch  Huggins's  —  snagged  briefly  in  the  cuff  of  
Mike's  leans,  but  he
was  able  to  pull  free.  He  threw  one  leg  over  the  top  of  the  
fence,  and then something struck
him  with  blinding  force  on  the  side  of  his  face.  Warmth  trickled  
down  his  cheek. Something
else  struck  his  hip,  his  forearm,  his  upper  thigh.  They  were  
throwing  his  own  ammunition  at
him.

He  hung  briefly  by  his  hands  and  then  dropped,  rolling  over  twice.  
The  scrubby  ground
sloped  downward  here,  and  perhaps  that  saved  Mike  Hanlon's eyesight or 
even his life; Henry
had  approached  the  fence  again  and  now  looped  one  of  his  four  M-80s 
 over  the  top  of  the
fence.  It  went  off  with  a  terrific   CRRRACK!  that  echoed  and  blew  a 
 wide  bare  patch  in  the
grass.

Mike,  his  ears  ringing,  went  head-over-heels  and  staggered  to  his  
feet.  He  was  now  in  high
grass,  on  the  edge  of  the  Barrens.  He  wiped  a  hand  down  his  right  
cheek  and  it  came  away
bloody.  The  blood  did  not  particularly  worry  him;  he  had  not  
expected  to  come  out  of  this
unscathed.

Henry tossed a cherry-bomb, but Mike saw this one coming and moved away easily.
'Let's get him!' Henry roared, and began to climb the fence.

'Jeez,  Henry,  I  don't  know  —  '  This  had  gone  too  far  for  Peter  
Gordon,  who  had  never
encountered  a  situation  that  had  turned  so  suddenly  savage.  Things  
were  not  supposed  to  get
bloody  —  at  least  not  for  your  team  —  when  the  odds  were  
comfortably  slugged  in  your
favor.

'You  better  know,'  Henry  said,  looking  back  at  Peter  from  halfway  up 
 the  fence.  He  hung
there  like  a  bloated  poisonous  spider  in  human  shape.  His  baleful  
eyes  stared  at  Peter;  blood
rimmed  them  on  either  side.  Mike's  downward  kick  had  broken  his  
nose,  although  Henry
would  not  be  aware  of  the  fact  for  some  time  yet.  'You  better  
know,  or  I'll  come after  you,
you fucking jerk.'

The  others  began  to  climb  the  fence,  Peter  and  Victor  with  some  
reluctance,  Belch  and
Moose as vacantly eager as before.

Mike  waited  to  see  no  more.  He  turned  and  ran  into  the  scrub.  
Henry  bellowed  after  him:

'I'll find you, nigger! I'll find you!'

8

The  Losers  had  reached  the  far  side  of  the  gravel-pit,  which  was  
little  more  than  a  huge
weedy pockmark in the earth now, three years after the last load of gravel had 
been taken out
of   it.  They  were  all  gathered  around  Stan,  looking  appreciatively  at 
 his  package  of  Black
Cats,  when  the  first  explosion  came.  Eddie  jumped  —  he was still 
goofed up over the piranha
fish  he  thought  he  had  seen  (he  wasn't  sure  what   real  piranha  fish 
 looked  like,  but  he  was
pretty sure they didn't look like oversized goldfish with teeth).

'Merrow  down  easy,  Eddie-san,'  Richie  said,  doing  his  Chinese  Coolie  
Voice.  'Iss  just  other
kids shooting off fireclackers.'

'That s-s-sucks the r-r-root, Rih-Rih-Richie,' Bill remarked. The others 
laughed.


'I  keep  trying,  Big  Bill,'  Richie  said.  'I  feel  like,  if  I  get  
good  enough,  someday  I'll  earn
your  love.'  He  made  dainty  kissing  gestures  at  the  air.  Bill  shot  
him  the  finger.  Ben  and  Eddie
stood side by side, grinning.

'Oh  I'm  so  young  and you're  so  old,'  Stan  Uris  piped  up  suddenly,  
doing  an  eerily  accurate
Paul Anka imitation, 'this my darling I've been told — '

'He  can  sayng!'  Richie  screeched  in  his  Pickaninny  Voice.  
'Lawks-a-mussy,  thisyere  boy

can  sayng!'  And  then,  in  the  MovieTone  Announcer's  Voice:  'Want  you  
to  sign  right  here,
boy,  on  this  dotted  line.'  Richie  slung  an  arm  around  Stan's  
shoulders  and  favored  him  with  a
gigantic  gleaming  smile.  'We're  going  to  grow  your  hair  out,  boy.  
Going  to  give  you  a  git-tar.
Going to — '

Bill  popped  Richie  twice  on  the  arm,  quickly  and  lightly.  They  were  
all  excited  at  the
prospect of shooting off firecrackers.

'Open them up, Stan,' Beverly said. 'I've got some matches.'

They  gathered  around  again  as  Stan  carefully  opened  the  package  of  
firecrackers. There
were  exotic  Chinese  letters  on  the  black  label  and  a  sober  caution  
in  English  that  got  Richie
giggling again. 'Do not hold in hand after fuse is lit,' this warning read.

'Good  thing  they  told  me,'  Richie  said.  'I  always  used  to  hold  them 
 after  I  lit  them.  I
thought that's how you got rid of your frockin hangnails.'

Working  slowly,  almost  reverently,  Stan  removed  the  red  cellophane  and 
 laid  the  block  of

cardboard  tubes,  blue  and  red  and  green,  on  the  palm  of  his  hand.  
Their  fuses  had  been
braided together in a Chinese pigtail.

'I'll  unwind  the  —  '  Stan  began,  and  then  there  was  a  much  louder  
explosion.  The  echo

rolled  slowly  across  the  Barrens.  A  cloud  of  gulls  rose  from  the  
eastern  side  of  the  dump,
squalling  and  crying.  They  all  jumped  this  time.  Stan  dropped  the  
firecrackers  and  had  to  pick
them up.

Was that dynamite?' Beverly asked nervously. She was looking at Bill, whose 
head was up,
his  eyes  wide.  She  thought  he  had  never  looked  so  handsome  —  but  
there  was  something too
alert, too strung-up, in the attitude of his head. He was like a deer scenting 
fire in the air.

'That  was  an  M-80,  I  think,'  Ben  said  quietly.  'Last  Fourth  of  July 
 I  was  in  the  park  and

there  were  these  high-school kids that had a couple. They put one of them in 
a steel trash-can.
It made a noise like that.'

'Did it blow a hole in the can, Haystack?' Richie asked.

'No,  but  it  bulged  out  the  side.  Looked  like  there  was  some  little  
guy  inside  who  just
stroked it one. They ran away.'

The big one was closer,' Eddie said. He also glanced at Bill.

'Do you guys want to shoot these off or not?' Stan asked. He had unbraided 
about a dozen
of the firecrackers and had put the rest neatly back in the waxed paper for 
later.

'Sure,' Richie said.

'P-P-Put them a-a-away.'

They  looked  at  Bill  questioningly,  a  little  scared  —  it  was  his  
abrupt  tone  more  than  what
he had said.

'P-P-Puh-hut  them  a-a-a-away,'  Bill  repeated,  his  face  contorting  with  
the  effort  he  was

making  to  get  the  words  out.  Spit  flew  from  his  lips.  
'S-S-Suh-homething's  g-g-gonna  h-h-
happen.'

Eddie  licked  his  lips,  Richie  shoved  his  glasses  up  the  sweaty  slope 
 of  his  nose  with  his
thumb, and Ben moved closer to Beverly without even thinking about it.

Stan  opened  his  mouth  to  say  something  and  then  there  was  another,  
smaller  explosion  —
another cherry-bomb.

'Ruh-Rocks,' Bill said.

'What, Bill?' Stan asked.


'Ruh-Ruh-Rocks.  A-A-Ammo.'  Bill  began  to  pick  up  stones,  stuffing  them 
 into  his  pockets
until  they  bulged.  The  others  stared  at  him  as  though  he  had  gone  
crazy  .  .  .  and  then  Eddie
felt  sweat  break  on  his  forehead.  All  of  a  sudden  he  knew  what  a  
malaria  attack  felt  like.  He
had  sensed  something  like  this  on  the  day  he  and  Bill  had  met  Ben  
(except  Eddie,  like  the
others,  was  already  coming  to  think  of  Ben  as  Haystack),  the  day  
Henry  Bowers  had  casually
bloodied  his  nose  —  but  this  felt  worse.  This  felt  like  maybe  it  
was  going  to  be  Hiroshima
time    in the Barrens.

Ben  started  to  get  rocks,  then  Richie,  moving  quickly,  not  talking  
now.  His  glasses  slipped
all  the  way  off  and  clicked  to  the  gravelly  surface  of  the  ground.  
He  folded  them  up  absently
and put them inside his shirt.

'Why did you do that, Richie?' Beverly asked. Her voice sounded thin, too taut.
'Don't know, keed,' Richie said, and went on picking up rocks.

'Beverly, maybe you better, uh, go back toward the dump for awhile,' Ben said. 
His hands
were full of rocks.

'Shit  on  that,'  she  said.  'Shit  all  over  that,  Ben  Hanscom.'  She  
bent  and  began  to  gather
rocks herself.

Stan  looked  at  them  thoughtfully  as  they  grubbed  for  rocks  like  
lunatic  farmers.  Then  he
began to gather them himself, his lips pressed into a thin and prissy line.

Eddie felt the familiar tightening sensation as his throat began to close up to 
a pinhole.

Not this time, dammit,  he thought suddenly. Not if my friends need me. Like 
Bev said, shit
all over that.

He also began to gather rocks.

9

Henry   Bowers   had   gotten   too   big   too   fast   to   be   either   
quick   or   agile   under   ordinary
circumstances,  but  these  circumstances  were  not  ordinary.  He  was  in  a 
 frenzy  of  pain  and
rage,  and  these  lent  him  an  ephemeral  unthinking  physical  genius.  
Conscious  thought  was
gone;  his  mind  felt  the  way  a  late-summer  grassfire  looks  as  dusk  
comes  on,  all  rose-red and
smoke-gray.  He  took  after  Mike  Hanlon  like  a  bull  after  a  red  flag. 
 Mike  was  following  a
rudimentary  path  along  the  side  of  the  big  pit,  a  path  which  would  
eventually  lead  to  the
dump,  but  Henry  was  too  far  gone  to  bother  with  such  niceties  as  
paths;  he  slammed  through
the  bushes  and  the  brambles  on  a  straight  line,  feeling  neither  the  
tiny  cuts  inflicted  by  the
thorns  nor  the  slaps  of  limber  bushes  striking  his  face,  neck,  and  
arms.  The  only  thing  that
mattered  was  the  nigger's  kinky  head,  drawing  closer.  Henry  had  one  
of  the  M-80s in his right
hand  and  a  wooden  match  in  his  left.  When  he  caught  the  nigger  he  
was  going  to  strike  the
match, light the fuse, and stuff that ashcan right down the front of his pants.

Mike knew that Henry was gaining and the others were close on his heels. He 
tried to push
himself  faster.  He  was  badly  scared  now,  keeping  panic  at  bay  only  
by  a  grim  effort  of  will.
He  had  turned  his  ankle  more  seriously  crossing  the  tracks  than  he  
had  thought  at  first,  and
now  he  was  limp-skipping  along.  The  crackle  and  crash  of  Henry's  
go-for-broke  progress
behind him called up unpleasant images of being chased by a killer dog or a 
rogue bear.

The  path  opened  out  just  ahead,  and  Mike  more  fell than  ran  into  
the  gravel-pit. He rolled
to  the  bottom,  got  to  his  feet,  and  was  halfway  across  before  he  
realized  that  there  were  kids
there, six of them. They were spread out in a straight line and there was a 
funny look on their

faces.  It  wasn't  until  al ter,  when  he'd  had  a  chance  to  sort  out  
his  thoughts,  that  he  realized

what was so odd about that look: it was as if they had been expecting him.

'Help,'  Mike  managed  as  he  limped  toward  them.  He  spoke  instinctively 
 to  the  tall  boy  with
the red hair. 'Kids . . . big kids — '


That  was  when  Henry  burst  into  the  gravel-pit.  He  saw  the  six  of  
them  and  came  to  a
skidding  halt.  For  a  moment  his  face  was  marked  with  uncertainty  and 
 he  looked  back  over
his  shoulder.  He  saw  his  troops,  and  when  Henry  looked back  at  the  
Losers  (Mike  was  now
standing beside and slightly behind Bill Denbrough, panting rapidly), he was 
grinning.

'I know you, kid,' he said, speaking to Bill. He glanced at Richie. 'I know 
you, too. Where's
your  glasses,  four-eyes?'  And  before  Richie  could  reply,  Henry  saw  
Ben.  'Well,  son  of  a
bitch! The Jew and the fatboy are here too! That your girlfriend, fatboy?'

Ben jumped a little, as if goosed.

Just  then  Peter  Gordon  pulled  up  beside  Henry.  Victor  arrived  and  
stood  on  Henry's  other
side;  Belch  and  Moose  Sadler  arrived  last.  They  flanked  Peter  and  
Victor,  and  now  the  two
opposing groups stood facing each other in neat, almost formal lines.

Panting  heavily  as  he  spoke  and  still  sounding  more  than  a  little  
like  a  human  bull,  Henry
said, 'I got bones to pick with a lot of you, but I can let that go for today. 
I want that nigger.
So you little shits buzz off.'

'Right!' Belch said smartly.

'He killed my dog!' Mike cried out, his voice shrill and breaking. 'He said so!'
'You come on over here right now,' Henry said, 'and maybe I won't kill you.'
Mike trembled but did not move.

Speaking  softly  and  clearly,  Bill  said:  'The  B-Barrens  are  ours.  You  
k-k-kids  get  out  of  h-
here.'

Henry's eyes widened. It was as if he'd been slapped unexpectedly.
'Who's gonna make me?' he asked. 'You, horsefoot?'

'Uh-Uh-Us,' Bill said. 'We're through t-t-taking your shit, B-B-Bowers. Get 
ow-ow-out.'
'You stuttering freak,' Henry said. He lowered his head and charged.

Bill  had  a  handful  of  rocks;  all  of  them  had  a  handful  except  Mike 
 and  Beverly,  who  was
only  holding  one.  Bill  began  to  throw  at  Henry,  not  hurrying  his  
throws,  but  chucking  hard
and  with  fair  accuracy.  The  first  rock  missed;  the  second  struck  
Henry  on  the  shoulder. If the
third  had  missed,  Henry  might  have  closed  with  Bill  and  wrestled  him 
 to  the  ground,  but  it
didn't miss; it struck Henry's lowered head.

Henry cried out in surprised pain, looked up . . . and was hit four more times: 
a little  billet-
doux  from  Richie  Tozier  on  the  chest,  one  from  Eddie  that  ricocheted 
 off  his  shoulder -blade,
one from Stan Uris that struck his shin, and Beverly's one rock, which hit him 
in the belly.

He  looked  at  them  unbelievingly,  and  suddenly  the  air  was  full  of  
whizzing  missiles.  Henry
fell  back,  that  same  bewildered,  pained  expression  on  his  face.  'Come 
 on,  you  guys!'  he
shouted. 'Help me!'

'Ch-ch-charge  them,'  Bill  said  in  a  low  voice,  and  not  waiting  to  
see  if  they  would  or  not,
he ran forward.

They  came  with him,  firing  rocks  not  only  at  Henry  now  but  at  all  
the  others.  The  big  boys
were  grubbing  on  the  ground  for  ammunition  of  their  own,  but  before  
they  could  gather
much,  they  had  been  peppered.  Peter  Gordon  screamed  as  a  rock  thrown 
 by  Ben  glanced  off
his  cheekbone  and  drew  blood.  He  backed  up  a  few  steps,  paused,  
threw  a  hesitant  rock  or
two  back  .  .  .  and  then  fled.  He  had  had  enough;  things  were  not  
done  this  way  on  West
Broadway.

Henry   grabbed   up   a   handful   of   rocks   in   a   savage   sweeping   
gesture.   Most  of   them,
fortunately for the Losers, were pebbles. He threw one of the larger ones at 
Beverly and it cut
her arm. She cried out.

Bellowing,  Ben  ran  for  Henry  Bowers,  who  looked  around  in  time  to  
see  him  coming  but
not  in  time  to  sidestep.  Henry  was  off-balance;  Ben  was  one  hundred  
and  fifty  trying  for  one-
sixty;  the  result  was  no  contest.  Henry  did  not  go  sprawling  but  
flying.  He  landed  on  his  back


and  skidded.  Ben  ran  toward  him  again  and  was  only  vaguely  aware  of 
 a  warm,  blooming
pain in his ear as Belch Huggins nailed him with a rock roughly the size of a 
golf ball.

Henry  was  getting  groggily  to  his  knees  as  Ben  reached  him  and  
kicked  him  hard,  his
sneakered  foot  connecting  solidly  with  Henry's  left  hip.  Henry  rolled  
over  heavily  on  his
back. His eyes blazed up at Ben.

'You  ain't  supposed  to  throw  rocks  at  girls!'  Ben  shouted.  He  could  
not  remember  ever  in
his life feeling so outraged. 'You aint — '

Then  he  saw  a  flame  in  Henry's  hand  as  Henry  popped  the  wooden  
match  alight.  He
touched  it  to  the  thick  fuse  of  the  M-80,  which  he  then  threw  at  
Ben's  face.  Acting  with  no
thought  at  all,  Ben  struck  the  ashcan  with  the  palm  of  his  hand,  
swinging  at  it  as  one  would
swing  a  racket  at  a  badminton  birdie.  The  M-80  went  back  down.  
Henry  saw  it  coming.  His
eyes  widened  and  then  he  rolled  away,  screaming.  The  ashcan  exploded  
a  split-second later,
blackening the back of Henry's shirt and tearing some of it away.

A  moment  later  Ben  was  hit  by  Moose  Sadler  and  driven  to  his  
knees.  His  teeth  clicked
together  over  his  tongue,  drawing  blood.  He  blinked  around,  dazed.  
Moose  was  coming
toward  him,  but  before  he  could  reach  the  place  where  Ben  was  
kneeling,  Bill  came  up
behind him and began pelting the big kid with rocks. Moose wheeled around, 
bellowing.

'You hit me from behind, yellowbelly!' Moose screamed. 'You fuckin 
dirtyfighter!'

He  gathered  himself  to  charge,  but  Richie  joined  Bill  and  also  began 
 to  fire  rocks  at
Moose.  Richie  was  unimpressed  with  Moose's  rhetoric  on  the  subject  of 
 what  might  or  might
not  constitute  yellowbelly  behavior;  he  had  seen  the  five  of  them  
chasing  one  scared  kid,  and
he  didn't  think  that  exactly  put  them  up  there  with  King  Arthur  and 
 the  Knights  of  the  Round
Table. One of Richie's missiles split the skin above Moose's left eyebrow. 
Moose howled.

Eddie  and  Stan  Uris  moved  up  to  join  Bill  and  Richie.  Beverly  moved 
 in  with  them,  her
arm  bleeding  but  her  eyes  wildly  alight.  Rocks  flew.  Belch  Huggins  
screamed  as  one  of  them
clipped  his  crazy  bone.  He  began  to  dance  lumbersomely, rubbing his 
elbow. Henry got to his
feet,  the  back  of  his  shirt  hanging  in  rags,  the  skin  beneath  
almost  miraculously  unmarked.
Before  he  could  turn  around,  Ben  Hanscom  bounced  a  rock  off  the  
back  of  his  head  and
drove him to his knees again.

It  was Victor Criss who did the most damage to the Losers that day, partly 
because he was
a   pretty   fair   fastball   pitcher,   but   mostly   —   paradoxically   —  
 because   he   was   the   least
emotionally  involved.  More  and  more  he  didn't  want  to  be  here.  
People  could  get  seriously
hurt           in  rockfights;  a  kid  could  get  his  skull  split,  a  
mouthful  of  broken  teeth,  could  even  lose
an eye. But since he was in it, he was in it. He intended to dish out some 
trouble.

That  coolness  had  allowed  him  to  take  an  extra  thirty  seconds  and  
pick  up  a  handful  of
good-sized  rocks.  He  threw  one  at  Eddie  as  the  Losers  re-formed  
their  rough  skirmish  line,
and  it  struck  Eddie  on  the  chin.  He  fell  down,  crying,  the  blood  
already  starting  to  flow.  Ben
turned   toward   him   but   Eddie   was   already   getting  up  again,  the  
blood  gruesomely  bright
against his pallid skin, his eyes slitted.

Victor    threw    at    Richie    and    the    rock    thudded    off    
Richie's    chest.    Richie    threw
back    but    Vie    ducked    it    easily    and    threw    one    sidearm  
  at    Bill    Denbrough.    Bill
snapped    his    head    back,    but    not    quite    quickly    enough;    
the    rock    cut    his    cheek
wide open.

Bill  turned  toward  Victor.  Their  eyes  locked,  and  Victor  saw  
something  in  the  stuttering
kid's gaze that scared the hell out of him. Absurdly, the words  I  take it 
back!  trembled behind
his  lips  .  .  .  except  that  was  nothing  you  said  to  a  little  kid.  
Not  if  you  didn't  want  your
buddies to start ranking you to the dogs and back.

Bill  started  to  walk  toward  Victor  now,  and  Victor  began  to  walk  
toward  Bill.  At  the  same
moment,  as  if  by  some  telepathic  signal,  they  began  to  throw  rocks  
at  each  other,  still  closing


the  distance.  The  righting  flagged  around  them  as  the  others  turned  
to  watch;  even  Henry
turned his head.

Victor  ducked  and  bobbed,  but  Bill  made  no  such  effort.  Victor's  
rocks slammed him in the
chest,  the  shoulder,  the  stomach.  One  clipped  by  his  ear.  Apparently  
unshaken  by  any  of  this,
Bill  threw  one  rock  after  another,  pegging  them  with  murderous  force. 
 The  third  one  struck
Victor's  knee  with  a  brittle  chipping  sound  and  Victor  uttered  a  
stifled  groan.  He  was  out  of
ammunition.  Bill  had  one  rock  left.  It  was  smooth  and  white,  shot  
with  quartz,  roughly  the
size  and  shape  of  a  duck's  egg.  To  Victor  Criss  it  looked  very  
hard.  Bill  was  less  than  five
feet away from him.

'Y-Y-You  g-get  ow-out  of  h-h-here  now,'  he  said,  'or  I'm  g-going  to  
spuh-puh-lit  your  h-
head o-o-open. I m-mean ih-ih-it.'

Looking  into  his  eyes,  Victor  saw  that  he  really  did.  Without  
another  word,  he  turned  and
headed back the way Peter Gordon had gone.

Belch  and  Moose  Sadler  were  looking  around  uncertainly.  Blood  trickled 
 from  the  corner

of  the  Sadler  boy's  mouth,  and  blood  from  a  scalp-wound  was  sheeting 
 down  the  side  of
Belch's face.

Henry's  mouth  worked  but  no  sound  came  out.  Bill  turned  toward Henry. 
'G-G-Get out,' he
said.

'What  if  I  won't?'  Henry  was  trying  to  sound  tough,  but  Bill  could  
now  see  a  different  thing

in  Henry's  eyes.  He  was  scared,  and  he  would  go.  It  should  have  
made  Bill  feel  good   —
triumphant, even — but he only felt tired.

'I-If  you  w-won't,'  Bill  said,  'w-w-we're  g-going to muh-move  i-in  on  
y-you. I think the s-s-

six of u-us can p-put you in the huh-huh-hospital.'

'Seven,'  Mike  Hanlon  said,  and  joined  them.  He  had  a  softball-sized  
rock  in  each  hand.
'Just try me, Bowers. I'd love to.'

'You fucking NIGGER!'  Henry's voice broke and wavered on the edge of tears. 
That voice

took  the  last  of  the  fight  out  of  Belch  and  Moose;  they  backed  
away,  their  remaining  rocks
dropping  from  relaxing  hands.  Belch  looked  around  as  if  wondering  
exactly  where  he  might
be.

'Get out of our place,' Beverly said.

'Shut  up,  you  cunt,'  Henry  said.  'You  —  '  Four  rocks  flew  at  once, 
 hitting  Henry  in  four
different  places  He  screamed  and  scrambled  backward  over  the  
weed-raddled  ground,  the
tatters  of  his  shirt  flapping  around  him.  He  looked  from  the  grim,  
old-young faces of the little
kids  to  the  frantic  ones  of  Belch  and  Moose.  There  was  no  help  
there;  no  help  at  all.  Moose
turned away, embarrassed.

Henry  got  to  his  feet,  sobbing  and  snuffling  through  his  broken  
nose.  'I'll  kill  you  all,'  he
said, and suddenly ran for the path. A moment later he was gone.

'G-G-Go  on,'  Bill  said,  speaking  to  Belch.  'Get  ow-out. And d-don't  
c-c-come  down  h-here
anymore. The B-B-Barrens are ow-ow-ours.

'You're gonna wish you didn't cross Henry, kid,' Belch said. 'Come on, Moose.'
They started away, heads down, not looking back.

The  seven  of  them  stood  in  a  loose  semicircle,  all  of  them  bleeding 
 some where.   The

apocalyptic  rockfight  had  lasted  less  than  four  minutes,  but  Bill  
felt  as  if  he  had  fought  his
way through all of World War II, both theaters, without so much as a single 
time-out.

The  silence  was  broken  by  Eddie  Kaspbrak's  whooping,  whining  struggle  
for  air.  Ben  went
toward  him,  felt  the  three  Twinkies  and  four  Ding-Dongs  he  had  eaten 
 on  his  way  down  to
the  Barrens  begin  to  struggle  and  churn  in  his  stomach,  and  ran  
past  Eddie  and  into  the
bushes, where he was sick as privately and quietly as he could be.


It  was  Richie  and  Bev  who  went  to  Eddie.  Beverly  put  an  arm  around 
 the  thin  boy's  waist
while  Richie  dug  his  aspirator  out  of  his  pocket.  'Bite  on  this,  
Eddie,'  he  said,  and  Eddie  took
a hitching, gasping breath as Richie pulled the trigger.

'Thanks,' Eddie managed at last.

Ben  came  back  out  of  the  bushes,  blushing,  wiping  a  hand  over  his  
mouth.  Beverly  went
over to him and took both of his hands in hers.

'Thanks for sticking up for me,' she said.

Ben nodded, looking at his dirty sneakers. 'Any time, keed,' he said.

One  by  one  they  turned  to  look  at  Mike,  Mike  with  his  dark  skin.  
They  looked  at  him
carefully,  cautiously,  thoughtfully.  Mike  had  felt  such  curiosity  
before  —  there  had  not  been
a time in his life when he had not felt it — and he looked back candidly 
enough.

Bill  looked  from  Mike  to  Richie.  Richie  met  his  eyes.  And  Bill  
seemed  almost  to  hear  the
click  —  some  final  part  fitting  neatly  into  a  machine  of  unknown  
intent.  He  felt  ice-chips
scatter up his back.  We're all together now,  he  thought, and the idea was so 
strong, so  right,
that for a moment he thought he might have spoken it aloud. But of course there 
was no need
to speak it aloud; he could see it in Richie's eyes, in Ben's, in Eddie's, in 
Beverly's, in Stan's.

We're  all  together now,  he thought again.  Oh  God  help  us.  Now  it  
really  starts.  Please
God, help us.

'What's your name, kid?' Beverly asked.

'Mike Hanlon.'

'You want to shoot off some firecrackers?' Stan asked, and Mike's grin was 
answer enough.


C H A P T E R  1 4

The Album

1

As it turns out, Bill isn't the only one; they all bring booze.

Bill has bourbon, Beverly has vodka and a carton of orange juice, Richie a 
sixpack, Ben
Hanscom a bottle of Wild Turkey. Mike has a sixpack in the little refrigerator  
in the staff
lounge.

Eddie Kaspbrak comes in last, holding a small brown bag.
'What you got there, Eddie?' Richie asks. 'Za-Rex or Kool-Aid?'

Smiling nervously, Eddie removes first a bottle of gin and then a bottle of 
prune juice.

In the thunderstruck silence which follows, Richie says quietly: 'Somebody call 
for the men
in the white coats. Eddie Kaspbrak's finally gone over the top.'

'Gin-and-prune juice happens to be very healthy,' Eddie replies defensively . . 
. and then
they're  all  laughing  wildly,  the  sound  of  their  mirth  echoing  and  
re-echoing  in  the  silent
library, rolling up and down the glassed-in hall between the adult library and 
the Children's
Library.

'You  go  head-on,'  Ben  says,  wiping  his  streaming  eyes.  'You  go  
head-on,  Eddie.  I  bet  it
really moves the mail, too.'

Smiling,  Eddie  fills  a  paper  cup  three-quarters full of prune juice and 
then soberly adds

two capfuls of gin.

'Oh Eddie, I do love you,' Beverly says, and Eddie looks up, startled but 
smiling. She gazes
up and down the table. 'I love all of you.'

Bill says, 'W-We love you too, B-Bev.'

'Yes,'  Ben  says.  'We  love  you.'  His  eyes  widen  a  little,  and  he  
laughs.  'I think we still all
love each other . . . Do you know how rare that must be?'

There's a moment of silence, and Mike is really not surprised to see that 
Rickie is wearing
his glasses.

'My contacts started to burn and I had to take them out,' Richie says briefly 
when Mike

asks. 'Maybe we should get down to business?'

They all look at  Bill then, as they had in the gravel-pit, and Mike thinks: 
They look at Bill
when  they  need  a  leader,  at  Eddie  when  they  need  a  navigator.  Get 
down to business, what a
hell  of  a  phrase  that  is.  Do  I  tell  them  that  the  bodies  of  the  
children  that  were  found  back
then  and  now  weren't  sexually  molested,  not  even  precisely  mutilated,  
but  partially  eaten?  Do
I  tell  them  I've  got  seven  miner's  helmets,  the  kind  with  strong  
electric  lights  set  into  the
front, stored back at my house, one of them for a guy named Stan Uris who 
couldn't make the
scene, as we used to say? Or is it maybe enough just to tell them to go home 
and get a good
night's sleep, because it ends tomorrow or tomorrow night for good — either for 
It or us?

None of those things have to be said, perhaps, and the reason why they don't 
has already
been  stated:  they  still  love  one  another.  Things  have  changed  over  
the  last  twenty-seven
years, but that, miraculously, hasn't. It is, Mike thinks, our only real hope.

The  only  thing  that  really  remains  is  to  finish  going  through  it,  
to  complete  the  job  of
catching up, of stapling past to present so that the strip of experience forms 
some half-assed
kind  of  wheel.  Yes,  Mike thinks,  that's it. Tonight the job is to make the 
wheel; tomorrow we


can  see  if  it still turns . . . the way it did when we drove the big kids 
out of the gravel-pit and
out of the Barrens.

'Have you remembered the rest?' Mike asks Richie.

Richie swallows some beer and shakes his head. 'I remember you telling us about 
the bird .

.  .  and  about  the  smoke-hole.'  A  grin  breaks  over  Richie's  face.  'I 
 remembered  about  that
walking over here tonight with Bevvie and Ben. What a fucking honor-show that 
was —

'Beep-beep, Richie,' Beverly says, smiling.

'Well, you know,' he says, still smiling himself and punching his glasses up on 
his nose in a
gesture  that  is  eerily  reminiscent  of  the  old  Richie.  He  winks  at  
Mike.  'You  and  me,  right,
Mikey?'

Mike snorts laughter and nods.

'Miss  Scawlett!  Miss  Scawlett!'  Richie  shrieks  in  his Pickaninny Voice.  
'It's gettin a little
wa'am in de smokehouse, Miss Scawlett!'

Laughing, Bill says, 'Another engineering and architectural triumph by Ben 
Hanscom.'

Beverly  nods.  'We  were  digging  out  the  clubhouse  when  you  brought  
your  father's
photograph album to the Barrens, Mike.'

'Oh, Christ!' Bill says, sitting suddenly bolt -upright. 'And the pictures — '

Richie nods grimly. 'The same trick as in Georgie's room. Only that time we all 
saw it.'
Ben says, 'I remembered what happened to the extra silver dollar.'

They all turn to look at him.

'I gave the other three to a friend of mine before I came out here,' Ben says 
quietly. 'For his
kids. I remembered there had been a fourth, but I couldn't remember what 
happened to it.
Now I do.' He looks at Bill. 'We made a silver slug out of it, didn't we? You, 
me, and Richie.
At first we were going to make a silver bullet — '

'You were pretty sure you could do it,' Richie agrees. 'But in the end — '

'We  got  c-cold  fuh-feet.'  Bill nods slowly. The memory has fallen naturally 
into  its place,
and  he  hears  that  same  low  but  distinct  click!  when  it  happens.  
We're getting closer,  he
thinks.

'We went back to Neibolt Street,' Richie says. 'All of us.'

'You  saved  my  life,  Big  Bill,'  Ben  says  suddenly  and  Bill  shakes  
his  head.  '  You  did,
though,' Ben persists, and this time Bill doesn't shake his head. He suspects 
that maybe he
had done just that, although he does not yet remember how . . . and was it him? 
He thinks
maybe Beverly . . . but that is not there. Not yet, anyway.

'Excuse me for a second,' Mike says. 'I've got a sixpack in the back fridge.'
'Have one of mine,' Richie says.

'Hanlon no drinkum white man's beer,' Mike replies. 'Especially not yours, 
Trashmouth.'
'Beep-beep, Mikey,' Rickie says solemnly, and Mike goes to get his beer on a 
warm wave of

their laughter.

He snaps on the light in the lounge, a tacky little room with seedy chairs, a 
Silex badly in
need of scrubbing, and a bulletin board covered with old notices, wage and hour 
information,
and a few  New Yorker  cartoons now turning yellow and curling up at the edges. 
He opens
the  little  refrigerator  and  feels  the  shock  sink  into  him,  bone-deep  
and  icewhite,  the  way
February cold sank into you when February was here and it seemed that April 
never would
be. Blue and orange balloons drift out in a flood, dozens of them, a New Year's 
Eve bouquet
of  party-balloons,  and  he  thinks  incoherently  in  the  midst  of  his  
fear,   All we need is Guy
Lombardo  tootling  away  on  'Auld  Lang  Syne.'  They  waft  past  his  face  
and  rise  toward  the
lounge  ceiling.  He's  trying  to  scream,  unable  to  scream,  seeing  what  
had  been  behind  the
balloons, what It had popped into the refrigerator beside his beer, as if for a 
late-night snack
after his worthless friends have all told their worthless stones and gone back 
to their rented
beds in this home town that is no longer home.


Mike  takes  a  step  backward,  his  hands  going  to  his  face,  shutting  
the  vision  out.  He
stumbles over one of the chairs, almost falls, and takes his hands away. It is 
still there; Stan
Uris's  severed  head  beside  Mike's  sixpack  of  Bud  Light,  the  head  not 
 of  a  man  but  of  an
eleven-year-old boy. The mouth is open in a soundless scream but Mike can see 
neither teeth
nor tongue because the mouth has been stuffed full of feathers. The feathers 
are a light brown
and unspeakably huge. He knows well enough what bird those feathers came from. 
Oh yes.
Oh yes indeed. He had seen the bird in May of 1958 and they had all seen it in 
early August
of  1958  and  then,  years  later,  while  visiting  his  dying  father,  he  
had  found  out  that  Will
Hanlon had seen it once, too, after his escape from the fire at the Black Spot. 
The blood from
S tan's tattered neck has dripped down and formed a coagulated pool on the 
fridge's bottom
shelf. It glitters dark ruby-red in the uncompromising glow shed by the fridge 
bulb.

'Uh . . . uh . . . uh . . . ' Mike manages, but no more sound than that can he 
make. Then the
head opens its eyes, and they are the silver-bright eyes of Pennywise the 
Clown. Those eyes
roll in his direction and the head's lips begin to squirm around the mouthful 
of feathers. It is
trying to speak, perhaps trying to deliver prophecy like the oracle in a Greek 
play.

Just  thought  I'd  join  you,  Mike,  because  you  can't  win  without  me.  
You  can't win without
me and you know it, don't you? You might have had a chance if all of me had 
shown up, but I
just  couldn't  stand  the  strain  on  my  all-American  brain,  if  you  see  
what  I  mean,  jellybean.  Ail
the six of you can do on your own is hash over some old times and then get 
yourselves killed.
So I thought I'd head you off at the pass. Head you off, get it, Mikey? Get it, 
old pal? Get it,
you fucking scumbag nigger?

You're not real!  he  screams,  but  no  sound  comes  out;  he  is  like  a  
TV  with  the  volume

control turned all the way down.

Incredibly, grotesquely, the head winks at him.

I'm  real,  all  right.  Real  as  raindrops.  And  you  know  what  I'm  
talking  about,  Mikey.  What
the  six  of  you  are  planning  to  try  is  like  taking  off  in  a  jet  
plane  with  no  landing  gear.  There's
no sense in going up if you can't get back down, is there? No sense in going 
down if you can't
get  back  up,  either.  You'll  never  think  of  the  right  riddles  and  
jokes.  You'll  never  make me
laugh,   Mikey.   You've   all   forgotten   how   to   turn   your   screams   
upside-down.   Beep-beep,
Mikey,  what  do  you  say?  Remember  the  bird?  Nothing  but  a  sparrow,  
but  say-hey! it was a
lulu,  wasn't  it?  Big  as  a  barn,  big  as  one  of  those  silly  Japanese 
 movie  monsters that used to
scare  you  when  you  were  a  little  kid.  The  days  when  you  knew  how  
to  turn  that  bird  from
your  door  are  gone  forever.  Believe  it,  Mikey.  If  you  know  how  to  
use  your head,  you'll  get
out  of  here,  out  of  Derry,  right  now.  If  you  don't  know  how to use 
it, it'll end up just like this
one  here.  Today's  guidepost  along  the  great  road  of  life  is  use  it  
before  you  lose  it,  my  good
man.

The head rolls over on its face (the feathers in its mouth make a horrid 
crumpling sound)
and  falls  out  of  the  refrigerator.  It  thuks  to  the  floor  and  rolls  
toward  him  like  a  hideous
bowling ball, its blood-matted hair changing places with its grinning face; it 
rolls toward him
leaving  a  gluey  trail  of  blood  and  dismembered  bits  of  feather  
behind,  its  mouth  working
around its clot of feathers.

Beep-beep, Mikey!  it  screams  as  Mike  backs  madly  away  from  it,  hands  
held  out  in  a

warding-off gesture. Beep-beep, beep-beep, beep-fucking-beep!

Then there is a sudden loud pop — the sound of a plastic cork thumbed out of a 
bottle of
cheap   champagne.   The   head   disappears   (Real,   Mike   thinks   sickly; 
 there  was  nothing
supernatural  about  that  pop,  anyway;  that  was  the  sound  of  air  
rushing  back  into  a  suddenly
vacated space . . . real, oh God, real). A thin net of blood droplets floats up 
and then patters
back down. No need to clean the lounge, though; Carole will see nothing when 
she comes in
tomorrow, not even if she has to plow her way through the balloons to get to 
the hotplate and
make her first cup of coffee. How handy. He giggles shrilly.


He  looks  up  and  yes,  the  balloons  are  still  there.  The  blue  ones  
say:  DERRY NIGGERS GET
THE  BIRD.  The  orange  ones  say:   THE  LOSERS  ARE  STILL  LOSING,  BUT 
STANLEY URIS IS   FINALLY

AHEAD

No sense going up if you can't get back down, the speaking head had assured 
him, no sense
going down if you can't get back up. This latter makes him think again of the 
stored miner's
helmets.  And  was  it  true?  Suddenly  he's  thinking  about  the  first  day 
 he  went  down  to  the
Barrens  after  the  rockfight.  July 6th, that had been, two days after he had 
marched in the
Fourth of July parade . . . two days after he had seen Pennywise the Clown in 
person for the
first time. It had been after that day in the Barrens, after listening to their 
stones and then,
hesit antly, telling his own, that he had gone home and asked his father if he 
could look at his
photograph album.

Why exactly had he gone down to the Barrens that July 6th? Had he known he 
would find
them there? It seemed that he had — and not just that they would be there, but 
where they
would be. They had been talking about a clubhouse of some sort, he remembers, 
but it had
seemed to him that they had been talking about that because there was something 
else that
they didn't know how to talk about.

Mike looks up at the balloons, not really seeing them now, trying to remember 
exactly how
it had been that day, that hot hot day. Suddenly it seems very important to 
remember just
what had happened, what every nuance had been, what his state of mind had been.

Because  that  was  when  everything  began  to  happen.  Before  that  the  
others  had  talked
about killing It, but there had been no forward motion, no plan. When Mike had 
come the
circle closed, the wheel began to roll. It had been later that same day that 
Bill and Richie and
Ben went down to the library and began to do serious research on an idea that 
Bill had had a
day or a week or a month before. It had all begun to —

'Mike?' Richie calls from the Reference Room where the others are gathered. 
'Did you die
in there?'

Almost, Mike thinks, looking at the balloons, the blood, the feathers inside 
the fridge.
He calls back: 'I think you guys better come in here.'

He hears the scrape of their chairs, the mutter of their voices; he hears 
Richie saying 'Oh

Jesus,  what's  up  now?'  and  another  ear,  this  one  in  his  memory,  
hears  Richie  saying
something else, and suddenly he remembers what it is he has been searching for; 
even more,
he understands why it has seemed so elusive. The reaction of the others when he 
stepped into
the clearing in the darkest, deepest, and most overgrown part of the Barrens 
that day had
been . . . nothing. No surprise, no questions about how he had found them, no 
big deal. Ben
had been eating a Twinkie, he remembers, Beverly and Richie had been smoking 
cigarettes,
Bill had been lying on his back with his hands behind his head, looking at the 
sky, Eddie and
Stan were looking doubtfully at a series of strings which had been pegged into 
the ground to
form a square of about five feet on a side.

No surprise, no questions, no big deal. He had simply shown up and been 
accepted. It was
as if, without even knowing it, they had been waiting for him. And in that 
third ear, memory's
ear,  he  hears  Richie's  Pickaninny  Voice  raised  as  it  was  earlier  
tonight:  'Lawdy,  Miss
Clawdy, here come

2

that  black  chile  agin!  Lawks-a-mussy,  I  doan  know  what  thisyere  
Barrens  is  comin  to!  Look
at  that  there  nappy  haid,  Big  Bill!'  Bill  didn't  even  look  around;  
he  just  went  on  staring
dreamily  at  the  fat  summer  clouds  marching  across  the  sky.  He  was  
giving  an  important
question  his  most  careful  consideration.  Richie  was  not  offended  by  
the  lack  of  attention,


however.  He  pushed  onward.  'Jest  lookin  at  that  nappy  haid  makes  me  
b'leeve  I  needs  me
another  mint  joolip!  I'se  gwinter  have  it  out  on  the  verandah,  where 
 it's  be  a  little  bit  coolah

— '

'Beep-beep, Richie,' Ben said from around a mouthful of Twinkie, and Beverly 
laughed.

'Hi,'  Mike  said  uncertainly.  His  heart  was  beating  a  little  too  
hard,  but  he  was determined to
go  on  with  this.  He  owed  his  thanks,  and  his  father  had  told  him  
that  you  always  paid  what
you owed — and as quick as you could, before the interest mounted up.

Stan  looked  around.  'Hi,'  he  said,  and  then  looked  back  at  the  
square  of  strings pegged into
the center of the clearing. 'Ben, are you sure this is going to work?'

'It'll work,' Ben said. 'Hi, Mike.'

'Want a cigarette?' Beverly asked. 'I got two left.'

'No  thank  you.'  Mike  took  a  deep  breath  and  said,  'I  wanted  to  
thank  you  all  again  for
helping  me  the  other  day.  Those  guys  meant  to  hurt  me  bad.  I'm  
sorry  some  of  you  guys  got
banged up.'

Bill  waved  his  hand,  dismissing  it.  'D-D-Don't  wuh-wuh-horry  a-a-bout  
it.  Th-they've  h-
had it i-i-in  f-for us all y-y-year.' He  sat up and looked at Mike with 
sudden starry interest. 'C-
Can I a-ask you s-s-something?'

'I  guess  so,'  Mike  said.  He  sat  down  gingerly.  He  had  heard  such  
prefaces  before.  The
Denbrough kid was going to ask him what it was like to be a Negro.

But  instead  Bill  said:  'When  L-L-Larsen  pitched  the  n-no-h-hitter  in  
the  World  S-Series
two years ago, d-do you think that was just luh-luck?'

Richie  dragged  deep  on  his  cigarette  and  started  to  cough.  Beverly  
pounded  nun  good-

naturedly on the back. 'You're just a beginner, Richie, you'll learn.'

'I  think  it's  gonna  fall  in,  Ben,'  Eddie  said  worriedly,  looking  at  
the  pegged  square.  'I  don't
know how cool I am on the idea of getting buried alive.'

'You're  not  gonna  get  buried  alive,'  Ben  said.  'And  if  you  are,  
just  suck  your  damn  old

aspirator until someone pulls you out.'

This  struck  Stanley  Uris  as  deliciously  funny.  He  leaned  back  on  his 
 elbow,  his  head
turned up to the sky, and laughed until Eddie kicked his shin and told him to 
shut up.

'Luck,' Mike said finally. 'I think any no-hitter's more luck than skill.'

'M-M-Me  t-too,'  Bill  said.  Mike  waited  to  see  if  there  was  more,  
but  Bill  seemed  satisfied.
He  lay  down  again,  laced  his  hands  behind  his  head  again,  and  went  
back  to  studying  the
clouds as they floated by.

'What  are  you  guys  up  to?'  Mike  asked,  looking  at  the  square  of  
strings  pegged  just  above
the ground

'Oh,  this  is  Haystack's  big  idea  of  the  week,'  Richie  said.  'Last  
time  he  flooded  out  the
Barrens  and  that  was  pretty  good,  but  this  one's  a  real  
dinner-winner. This is Dig Your Own
Clubhouse Month. Next month — '

'Y-You  don't  nuh-nuh-need  to  put  B-B-B-Ben  d-duh-hown,'  Bill  said,  
still  looking  at  the
sky. 'It's going to be guh-guh-good.'

'God's sake, Bill, I was just kidding.'

'Suh-Sometimes you k-k-kid too much, Rih-Richie.'
Richie accepted the rebuke silently.

'I still don't get it,' Mike said.

'Well,  it's  pretty  simple,'  Ben  said.  'They  wanted  a  treehouse,  and  
we  could  do  that,  but
people have a bad habit of breaking their bones when they fall out of 
treehouses — '

'Kookie . . . Kookie . . . lend me your bones,' Stan said, and laughed again 
while' the others
looked  at  him,  puzzled.  Stan  did  not  have  much  sense  of  humor,  and  
the  bit  he  did  have  was
sort of peculiar.

'You ees goin loco, senhorr,' Richie said. 'Eees the heat an the cucarachas, I 
theenk.'


'Anyway,'  Ben  said,  'what  we'll  do  is  dig  down  about  five  feet  in  
the  square  I  pegged  out
there.  We  can't  go  much  deeper  than  that  or  we'll hit groundwater, I 
guess. It's pretty close to
the surface down here. Then we'll shore up the sides just to make sure they 
don't cave in.' He
looked significantly at Eddie here, but Eddie was worried.

'Then what?' Mike asked, interested.
'We'll cap off the top.'

'Huh?'

'Put boards over the top of the hole. We can put in a trapdoor or something so 
we can get in
and out, even windows if we want — '

'We'll need some hih-hih-hinges,' Bill said, still looking at the clouds.
'We can get those at Reynolds Hardware,' Ben said.

'Y-You guh-guh-guys have your a-a-allowances,' Bill said.

'I've got five dollars,' Beverly said. 'I saved it up from babysitting.'

Richie immediately began to crawl toward her on his hands and knees. 'I love 
you, Bevvie,'
he  said,  making  dog's  eyes  at  her.  'Will  you  marry  me?  We'll  live  
in  a  pine-studded bungalow

— '

'A   what'?'   Beverly   asked,   while   Ben   watched   them   with   an   
odd   mixture   of   anxiety,
amusement, and concentration.

'A     bung-studded    pinealo w,'    Richie    said.    'Five    bucks    is   
 enough,    sweetie,    you

and me and baby makes three — '

Beverly laughed and blushed and moved away from him.

'We sh-share the e-expenses,' Bill said. 'That's why we got a club.'

'So  after  we  cap  the  hole  with  boards,' Ben went on, 'we put down this 
heavy-duty glue —
Tangle-Track,  they  call  it  —  and  put  the  sods  back  on.  Maybe  
sprinkle  it  with  pine  needles.
We could be down there and people  — people like Henry Bowers  — could walk 
right over us
and not even know we were there.'

'You thought of that?' Mike said. 'Jeez, that's great!'
Ben smiled. It was his turn to blush.

Bill sat up suddenly and looked at Mike. 'You w-w-want to heh-help?'

'Well . . . sure,' Mike said. That'd be fun.'

A  look  passed  among the others  —  Mike  felt  it  as  well  as  saw  it.  
There  are  seven  of  us
here, Mike thought, and for no reason at all he shivered.

'When are you going to break ground?'

'P-P-hretty   s-soon,'   Bill   said,   and   Mike   knew   —   knew   —   that 
 it  wasn't  just  Ben's
underground  clubhouse  Bill  was  talking  about.  Ben  knew  it,  too.  So  
did  Richie,  Beverly,  and
Eddie.  Stan  Uris  had  stopped  smiling;  'W-We're  g-gonna  start  this  
pruh-huh-hoject  pretty
suh-suh-soon.'

There  was  a  pause  then,  and  Mike  was  suddenly  aware  of  two things: 
they wanted to say
something,  tell  him  something  .  .  .  and  he  was  not  entirely  sure  
he  wanted  to  hear  it.  Ben  had
picked  up  a  stick  and  was  doodling  aimlessly  in  the  dirt,  his  hair  
hiding  his  face.  Richie  was
gnawing at his already ragged fingernails. Only Bill was looking directly at 
Mike.

'Is something wrong?' Mike asked uneasily.

Speaking  very  slowly,  Bill  said:  'W-W-We're  a  cluh-club.  Y-You can be 
in the club if you
w-w-want, but y-y-you have to kee-keep our see-see-secrets.'

'You mean, like the clubhouse?' Mike asked, now more uneasy than ever. 'Well, 
sure — '

'We've  got  another  secret,  kid,'  Richie  said,  still  not  looking  at  
Mike.  'And  Big  Bill  says
we've    got    something    more    important    to    do    this    summer    
than    digging    underground
clubhouses.'

'He's right, too,' Ben added.


There  was  a  sudden,  whistling  gasp.  Mike  jumped.  It  was  only  Eddie,  
blasting  off.  Eddie
looked at Mike apologetically, shrugged, and then nodded.

'Well,' Mike said finally, 'don't keep me in suspense. Tell me.'

Bill  was  looking  at  the  others.  'I-Is  there  a-a-anyone  who  d-doesn't  
want  him  in  the  cluh-
club?'

No one spoke or raised a hand.

'W-Who wants to t-tell?' Bill asked.

There  was  another  long  pause,  and  this  time  Bill  didn't  break  it. At 
last Beverly sighed and
looked up at Mike.

'The  kids  who  have  been  killed,'  she  said.  'We  know  who's  been  
doing  it,  and  it's  not
human.'

3

They  told  him,  one  by  one:  the  clown  on  the  ice,  the  leper  under  
the  porch,  the  blood  and
voices  from  the  drain,  the  dead  boys  in  the  Standpipe.  Richie  told  
about  what  had  happened
when  he  and  Bill  went  back  to  Neibolt  Street,  and  Bill  spoke  last,  
telling  about  the  school
photo  that  had  moved,  and  the  picture  he  had  stuck  his  hand  into.  
He  finished  by  explaining
that  it  had  killed  his  brother  Georgie,  and  that  the  Losers'  Club  
was  dedicated  to  killing  the
monster . . . whatever the monster really was.

Mike   thought   later,   going   home   that   night,   that   he   should   
have   listened  with   disbelief
mounting  into  horror  and  finally  run  away  as  fast  as  he  could,  not  
looking  back,  convinced
either that he was being put on by a bunch of white kids who didn't like black 
folks or that he
was  in  the  presence  of  six  authentic  lunatics  who  had  in  some  way  
caught  their  lunacy  from
each other, the way everyone in the same class could catch a particularly 
virulent cold.

But he didn't run, because in spite of the horror, he felt a strange sense of 
comfort. Comfort
and something else, something more elemental: a feeling of coming  home.  There 
 are  seven  of
us here, he thought again as Bill finally finished speaking.

He opened his mouth, not sure of what he was going to say.
'I've seen the clown,' he said.                                            :

'What?'  Richie  and  Stan  asked  together,  and  Beverly  turned  her  head  
so  quickly  that  her
pony-tail flipped from her left shoulder to her right.

'I  saw  him  on  the  Fourth,'  Mike  said  slowly,  speaking  to  Bill  
mostly.  Bill's  eyes,  sharp  and

utterly  concentrated,  were  on  his,  demanding  that  he  go  on.  'Yes,  on 
 the  Fourth  of July . . . '
He trailed off momentarily, thinking:  But I knew him. I knew him because that 
wasn't the first
time I saw him. And it wasn't the first time I saw something . . . something 
wrong.

He  thought  of  the  bird  then,  the  first  time  he'd  really  alowed  
himself  to  think  of  it  —
except in nightmares  —  since May. He had thought he was going crazy. It was a 
relief to find
out he wasn't crazy . . . but it was still a scary relief. He wet his lips.

'Go on,' Bev said impatiently. 'Hurry up.'

'Well, the thing is, I was in the parade. I — '

'I saw you,' Eddie said. 'You were playing the saxophone.'

'Well,  it's  actually  a  trombone,'  Mike  said.  'I  play  with  the  
Neibolt  Church  School  Band.
Anyway,  I  saw  the  clown.  He  was  handing  out  balloons  to  kids  on  
the  three-way  corner
downtown.  He  was  just  like  Ben  and  Bill  said.  Silver  suit,  orange  
buttons,  white  makeup  on
his face, big red smile. I don't know if it was lipstick or make-up, but it 
looked like blood.'

The  others  were  nodding,  excited  now,  but  Bill  only  went  on  looking  
at  Mike  closely.  'O-
O-Orange  tufts  of  h-h-hair?'  he  asked  Mike,  making  them  unconsciously  
over  his  own  head
with his fingers.


Mike nodded.

'Seeing  him  like  that  .  .  .  it  scared  me.  And  while  I  was  looking 
 at  him,  he  turned around
and waved at me, like he'd read my mind, or my feelings, or whatever you call 
it. And that . .

.  like,  scared  me  worse.  I  didn't  know  why  then,  but  he  scared  me  
so  bad  for  a  couple  of

seconds  I  couldn't  play  my  'bone  anymore.  All  the  spit  in  my mouth 
dried up and I felt . . . '
He   glanced   briefly   at   Beverly.   He   remembered   it   all   so   
clearly   now,   how   the   sun   had
suddenly  seemed  intolerably  dazzling  on  the  brass  of  his  horn  and  
the  chrome  of  the  cars,  the
music  too  loud,  the  sky  too  blue.  The  clown  had  raised  one  
white-gloved hand (the other was
full  of  balloon  strings)  and  had  waved  slowly  back  and  forth,  his  
bloody  grin  too  red  and  too
wide,  a  scream  turned  upside-down.  He  remembered  how  the  flesh  of  
his  testicles  had  begun
to  crawl,  how  his  bowels  had  suddenly  felt  all  loose  and  hot,  as  
if  he  might  suddenly  drop  a
casual  load  of  shit  into  his  pants.  But  he  couldn't  say  any  of  
that  in  front  of  Beverly.  You
didn't  say  stuff  like  that  in  front  of  girls,  even  if  they  were  
the  sort  of  girls  you  could  say
things  like  'bitch'  and  'bastard'  in  front  of.  '  .  .  .  I  felt  
scared,'  he  finished,  feeling  that  was  too
weak, but not knowing how to say the rest. But they were nodding as if they 
understood, and
he   felt   an   indescribable   relief   wash   through   him.   Somehow   
that   clown   looking   at   him,
smiling  his  red  smile,  his  white-gloved  hand  penduluming  slowly  back  
and  forth  .  .  .  that  had
been worse than having Henry Bowers and the rest after him. Ever so much worse.

'Then  we  were  past,'  Mike  went  on.  'We  marched  up  Main  Street  Hill. 
 And  I  saw  him
again,  handing  out  balloons  to  kids.  Except  a  lot  of  them  didn't  
want  to  take  them.  Some  of
the  little  ones  were  crying.  I  couldn't  figure  out  how  he  could  
have  gotten  up  there  so  fast.  I
thought  to  myself  that  there  must be  two  of  them,  you  know,  both  of 
 them  dressed  the  same
way. A team. But then he turned around and waved to me again and I knew it was 
him. It was
the same man.'

'He's  not  a  man,'  Richie  said,  and  Beverly  shuddered.  Bill  put  his  
arm  around  her  for  a
moment and she looked at him gratefully.

'He waved to me . . . and then he winked. Like we had a secret. Or like . . . 
like maybe he
knew I'd recognized him.'

Bill dropped his arm from Beverly's shoulders. 'You reh-reh-rehrecognized him?'

'I think so,' Mike said. 'I have to check something before I say it's for sure. 
My father's got
some pictures . . . He collects them . . . Listen, you guys play down here a 
lot, don't you?'

'Sure,' Ben said. 'That's why we're building a clubhouse.'

Mike nodded. 'I'll check and see if I'm right. If I am, I can bring the 
pictures.'
'O-O-Old pic-pictures?' Bill asked.

'Yes.'

'W-W-What else?' Bill asked.

Mike opened his mouth and then closed it again. He looked around at them 
uncertainly and
then said, 'You'd think I was crazy. Crazy or lying.'

'D-Do y-y-you th-think we're cruh-cruh-crazy?'

Mike shook his head.

'You  bet  we're  not,'  Eddie  said.  'I  got  a  lot  wrong  with  me,  but  
I'm  not  bughouse.  I  don't
think.'

'No,' Mike said. 'I don't think you're crazy.'

'Well, we-we won't th-think you're cruh-cruh . . . nuts, e-e-either,' Bill 
said.

Mike looked them all over, cleared his throat, and said: 'I saw a bird. Couple, 
three months
ago. I saw a bird.'

Stan Uris looked at Mik e. 'What kind of a bird?'

Speaking more reluctantly than ever Mike said: 'It looked like a sparrow, sort 
of, but it also
looked like a robin. It had an orange chest.'


'Well,  what's  so  special  about  a  bird?'  Ben  asked.  'There  are  lots  
of  birds  in  Derry.' But he
felt  uneasy,  and  looking  at  Stan,  he  felt  sure  that  Stan  was  
remembering  what  had  happened
in  the  Standpipe,  and  how  he  had  somehow  stopped  it  from  happening  
by  shouting  out  the
names of birds. But he forgot all about that and everything else when Mike 
spoke again.

'This bird was bigger than a housetrailer,' he said.

He  looked  at  their  shocked,  amazed  faces.  He  waited  for  their  
laughter,  but  none  came.
Stan looked as if someone had clipped him with a brick. His face had gone so 
pale it  was the
color of muted November sunlight.

'I  swear  it's  true,'  Mike  said.  'It  was  a  giant  bird,  like  one  of  
those  birds  in  the  monster-

movies that are supposed to be prehistoric.'

'Yeah, like in   The  Giant  Claw,'  Richie  said.  He  thought  the  bird  in 
that had been sort of
fake-looking,  but  by  the  time  it  got  to  New  York  he  had  still  been 
 excited  enough  to  spill  his
popcorn  over  the  balcony  railing  at  the  Aladdin.  Foxy  Foxworth  would  
have  kicked  him  out,
but the movie was over by then anyway. Sometimes  you got the shit kicked out 
of you, but as
Big Bill said, sometimes you won one, too.

'But   it   didn't   look   prehistoric,'   Mike   said.   'And   it   didn't   
look   like   one   of   those
whatdoyoucallums the Greeks and Romans made up stories about — '

'Ruh-Ruh-Rocs?' Bill suggested.

'Right,  I  guess  so.  It  wasn't  like  those,  either.  It  was  just  like  
a  combination  robin  and
sparrow. The two most common birds you see.' He laughed a little wildly.

'W-W-Where — ' Bill began.

'Tell  us,'  Beverly  said  simply,  and  after  a  moment  to  collect  his  
thoughts,  Mike  did.  And
telling  it,  watching  their  faces  grow  concerned  and  scared  but  not  
disbelieving  or  derisive,  he
felt  an  incredible  weight  lift  from  his  chest.  Like  Ben  with  his  
mummy  or  Eddie  with  his
leper  and  Stan  with  the  drowned  boys,  he  had  seen  a  thing  that  
would  have  driven  an  adult
insane,  not  just  with  terror  but  with  the  walloping  force  of  an  
unreality  too  great  to  be
explained  away  or,  lacking  any  rational  explanation,  simply  ignored.  
Elijah's  face  had  been
burned black by the light of God's love, or so Mike had read; but Elijah had 
been an old man
when it happened, and maybe that made a difference. Hadn't one of those other 
Bible fellows,
this one little more than a kid, actually wrestled an angel to a draw?

He  had  seen  it  and  he  had  gone  on  with  his  life;  he  had  
integrated  the  memory  into  his
view  of  the  world.  He  was  still  young  enough  so  that  view  was  
tremendously  wide.  But  what
had  happened  that  day  had  nonetheless  haunted  his  mind's  darker  
corners,  and sometimes in
his dreams he ran from that grotesque bird as it printed its shadow on him from 
above. Some
of  these  dreams  he  remembered  and  some  he  did  not,  but  they  were  
there,  shadows  which
moved by themselves.

How  little  of  it  he  had  forgotten  and  how  greatly  it  had  troubled  
him  (as  he  went about his
daily  round:  helping  his  father,  going  to  school,  riding  his  bike,  
doing  errands  for  his  mother,
waiting  for  the  black  groups  to  come  on  American  Bandstand  after  
school)  was  perhaps
measurable in only  one way  —  the  relief  he  felt  in  sharing  it  with  
the  others.  As  he  did,  he
realized  it  was  the  first  time  he  had  even  allowed  himself  to  think 
 of  it  fully  since  that  early
morning by the Canal, when he had seen those odd grooves . . . and the blood.

4

Mike  told  the  story  of  the  bird  at  the  old  Ironworks  and  how  he  
had  run  into  the  pipe  to
escape  it.  Later  on  that  afternoon,  three  of  the  Losers  — Ben, 
Richie, Bill  — walked toward
the   Derry   Public   Library.   Ben   and   Richie   were   keeping   a   
close   watch   for   Bowers  and
Company,  but  Bill  only  looked  at  the  sidewalk,  frowning,  lost  in  
thought.  About  an  hour  after


telling  them  his  story  Mike  had  left  them,  saying  his  father  wanted  
him  home  by  four  to  pick
peas.  Beverly  had  to  do  some  marketing  and  fix  dinner  for  her  
father, she said. Both Eddie
and Stan had their own things to do. But before they broke up for the day they 
began digging
what  was  to  become  —  if  Ben  was  right  —  their  underground clubhouse. 
To Bill (and to all
of  them,  he  suspected),  the  groundbreaking  had  seemed  an  almost  
symbolic  act.  They  had
begun. Whatever it was they were supposed to do as a group, as a unit, they had 
begun.

Ben  asked  Bill  if  he  believed  like  Hanlon's  story.  They  were  passing 
 Derry  Community
House  and  the  library  was  just  ahead,  a  stone  oblong  comfortably  
shaded  by  elms  a  century
old and as yet untouched by the Dutch Elm disease that would later plague and 
thin them.

'Yeah,'  Bill  said.  'I  th-think  it  was  the  truh-hooth.  C-C-Crazy,  but  
true.  What  about  you,
Ruh-Ruh-Richie?'

Richie  nodded.  'Yeah.  I  hate  to  believe  it,  if  you  know  what  I  
mean,  but  I  guess  I  do.  You
remember what he said about the bird's tongue?

Bill and Ben nodded. Orange fluffs on it.

'That's  the  kicker,'  Richie  said.  'It's  like  some  comic-book  villain.  
Lex  Luthor  or  the  Joker
or someone like that. It always leaves a trademark.'

Bill  nodded  thoughtfully.  It  was   like  some  comic-book  villain.  
Because  they  saw  it  that
way?  Thought  of  it  that  way?  Yes,  perhaps  so.  It  was  kid's  stuff,  
but  it  seemed  that was what
this thing thrived on — kid's stuff.

They crossed the street to the library side.

'I  a-a-asked  Stuh-Stuh-Stan  i-if  he  e-ever  h-h-heard  of  a  buh-bird  
l-like  that,'  Bill  said.
'Nuh-nuh-not n-necessarily a b-b-big wuh-wuh-one, but j- just a-a-a — '

'A real one?' Richie suggested.

Bill  nodded.  'H-He  suh-said  there  m-m-might  be  a  buh-bird  like  that  
in  Suh-houth America
or A-A-A-Africa, but nuh-nuh-not a-around h-h-here.'

'He didn't believe it, then?' Ben asked.

'H-H-He  buh-believed  i-i-it,'  Bill  said.  And  then  he  told  them  
something  else  Stan  had
suggested  when  Bill  walked  with  him  back  to  where  Stan  had  left  his 
 bike.  Stan's  idea  was
that  nobody  else  could  have  seen  that  bird  before  Mike  told  them  
that  story.  Something  else,
maybe, but not that bird, because the bird was Mike Hanlon's personal monster. 
But now . . .
why,  now  that  bird  was  the  property  of  the  whole  Losers'  Club,  
wasn't  it?  Any  of them might
see  it.  It  might  not  look  exactly  the  same;  Bill  might  see  it  as  
a  crow,  Richie  as  a  hawk,
Beverly  as  a  golden  eagle,  for  all  Stan  knew  — but It could be a bird 
to all of them now. Bill
told  Stan  that  if  that  was  true,  then  any  of  them  might  see  the  
leper,  the  mummy,  or  possibly
the dead boys.

'Which  means  we  ought  to  do  something  pretty  soon  if  we're  going  to 
 do  anything  at  all,'
Stan had replied. 'It knows . . . '

'Wuh-What?' Bill had asked sharply. 'Eh-Everything we nuh-know?'

'Man, if It knows that, we're sunk,' Stan had answered. 'But you can bet It 
knows  we know
about   It,   I   think   It'll   try   to   get   us.   Are   you   still   
thinking   about   what   we   talked   about
yesterday?'

'Yes.'

'I wish I could go with you.'

'Buh-Buh-Ben  and  Rih-Richie  w-w-will.  Ben's  really  s-s-smart,  and  
Rih-Rih-Richie  is,  too,
when he ih-isn't fucking o-off.'

Now,  standing  outside  the  library,  Richie  asked  Bill  exactly  what  it  
was  he  had  in  mind.

Bill  told  them,  speaking  slowly  so  he  wouldn't  stutter  too  badly.  
The  idea  had  been  circling  in
his mind for the last two weeks, but it had taken Mike's story of the bird to 
crystallize it.

What did you do if you wanted to get rid of a bird?

Well, shooting it was pretty goddam final.


What  did  you  do  if  you  wanted  to  get  rid  of  a  monster?  Well,  the  
movies  suggested  that
shooting it with a silver bullet was pretty goddam final.

Ben  and  Richie  listened  to  this  respectfully  enough.  Then  Richie  
asked,  'How  do  you  get  a
silver bullet, Big Bill? Send away for it?'

'Very fuh-fuh-funny. We'll have to m-m-make it.'
'How?'

'I guess  that's what we're at the library to find out,' Ben said. Richie 
nodded and pushed his
glasses  up  on  his  nose.  Behind  them,  his  eyes  were  sharp  and  
thoughtful  .  .  .  but  doubtful,  Bill
thought.  He  felt  doubtful  himself.  At  least  there  was  no  foolishness  
in  Richie's eyes, and that
was a step in the right direction.

'You thinking about your dad's Walther?' Richie asked. The one we took to 
Neibolt Street?'
'Yes,' Bill said.

'Even    if    we    could    really    make    silver    bullets,'    Richie   
 said,    'where    would    we
get the silver?'

'Let me worry about that,' Ben said quietly.

'Well  .  .  .  okay,'  Richie  said.  'We'll  let  Haystack  worry  about  
that.  Then  what?  Neibolt
Street again?'

Bill  nodded.  'Nee-Nee-Neibolt  Street  a-a-again.  And  then  we  buh-blow  
its  fucking  h-h-
head o-off.'

The  three  of  them  stood  there  a  moment  longer,  looking  at  each  
other  solemnly,  and  then
they went into the library.

5

'Sure an begorrah, it's that black feller again!' Richie cried in his Irish Cop 
Voice.

A  week  had  passed;  it  was  nearly  mid  July  and  the  underground  
clubhouse  was  almost
finished.

'Top  o  the  mornin  to  ye,  Mr  O'Hanlon,  sor!  And  a  foine,  foine  day  
it  promises  to  be,  foine
as pertaters a-growin, as me old mither used to — '

'So  far  as  I  know,  noon  is  the  top of the morning, Richie,' Ben said, 
popping up in the hole,

'and  noon  was  two  hours  ago.'  He  and  Richie  had  been  putting  in  
shoring  around  the  sides  of
the  hole.  Ben  had  taken  off  his  sweatshirt  because  the  day  was  hot  
and  the  work  was  hard.
His  tee  —  shirt  was  gray  with  sweat  and  stuck  to  his  chest  and  
pouch  of  a  stomach.  He
seemed  remarkably  unselfconscious  of  the  way  he  looked,  but  Mike  
guessed  that  if  Ben  heard
Beverly  coming,  he  would  be  inside  that  baggy  sweatshirt  again  before 
 you  could  say  puppy
love.

'Don't be so picky  —  you  sound  like  Stan  the  Man,'  Richie  said.  He  
had  gotten  out  of  the
hole five minutes before because, he told Ben, it was time for a cigarette 
break.

'I thought you said you didn't have any cigarettes,' Ben had said.
'I don't,' Richie had replied, 'but the principle remains the same.'

Mike  had  his  father's  photograph  album  under  his  arm.  'Where  is  
everybody?' he asked. He
knew  Bill  had  to  be  somewhere  around,  because  he  had  left  his  own  
bike  parked  under  the
bridge near Silver.

'Bill  and  Eddie  went  down  to  the  dump  about  half  an  hour  ago  to  
liberate  some  more
boards,'  Richie  said.  'Stanny  and  Bev  went  down  to  Reynolds  Hardware  
to  get  hinges.  I  don't
know what the frock Haystack's up to down there  — up to down there, ha-ha, you 
get it?  —
but it's probably no good. Boy needs someone to keep an eye on him, you know. 
By the way,
you owe us twenty-three cents if you still want to be in this club. Your share 
of the hinges.'


Mike  switched  the  album  from  his  right  arm to  his  left  and  dug  into 
 his  pocket.  He  counted
out  twenty-three  cents  (leaving  a  grand  total  of  one  dime  in  his  
own  personal  treasury)  and
handed it over to Richie. Then he walked over to the hole and looked in.

Except  it  really  wasn't  a  hole  anymore.  The  sides  had  been  neatly  
squared  off.  Each  side
had  been  shored  up.  The  boards  were  all  mongrels,  but  Ben,  Bill, and 
Stan had done a good
job of sizing them with tools from Zack Denbrough's shop (and Bill had been at 
great pains to
make  sure  every  tool  was  returned  every  night,  and  in  the  same  
condition  as  when  it  was
taken).  Ben  and  Beverly  had  nailed  cross-pieces  between  the  supports.  
The  hole  still  made
Eddie  a  little  nervous,  but  that  was  Eddie's  nature.  Piled  carefully  
to  one  side  were  squares  of
sod which would later be glued to the top.

'I think you guys know what you're doing,' Mike said.
'Sure,' Ben said, and pointed to the album. 'What you got?'

'My  father's  Derry  album,'  Mike  said.  'He  collects  old  pictures  and  
clippings  about  the
town.  It's  his  hobby.  I  was  looking  through  it  a  couple  of  days  
ago  — I told you I thought I'd
seen that clown before. And I did. In here. So I brought it down.' He was too 
ashamed to add
that he had not dared to ask his father's permission to do this. Afraid of the 
questions to which
such  a  request  might  lead,  he  had  taken  it  from  the  house  like  a  
thief  while  his  father  planted
potatoes  in  the  west  field  and  his  mother  hung  clothes  in  the  back  
yard.  'I  thought  you  guys
ought to take a look, too.'

'Well, let's see,' Richie said.

'I'd like to wait until everybody's here. It might be better.'

'Okay.'  Richie  was,  in  truth,  not  that  anxious  to  look  at  more  
pictures  of  Derry,  in  this  or
any  other  album.  Not  after  what  had  happened  in  Georgie's  room.  'You 
want to help me and
Ben with the rest of the shoring?'

'You  bet.'  Mike  put  his  father's  album  down  carefully,  far  enough  
from  the  hole  so  it
wouldn't be pelted with flying dirt, and took Ben's shovel.

'Dig  right  here,'  Ben  said,  showing  Mike  the  spot.  'Go  down  about  a 
 foot.  Then  I'll  set  a
board in and hold it flush against the side while you shovel the dirt back in.'

'Good  plan,  man,'  Richie  said  sagely  from  where  he  sat  on  the  edge  
of  the  excavation  with

his sneakers dangling down.

'Wha t's wrong with you?' Mike asked.

'Got a bone in my leg,' Richie said comfortably.

'How's  your  project  with  Bill  going?'  Mike  stopped  long  enough  to  
strip  off  his  shirt  and
then  began  to  dig.  It  was  hot  down  here,  even  in  the  Barrens.  
Crickets  hummed sleepily like
summer clocks in the brush.

'Well  .  .  .  not  too  bad,'  Richie  said,  and  Mike  thought  he  flashed 
 Ben  a  mildly  warning
look. 'I guess.'

'Why don't you play your radio, Richie?' Ben asked. He slipped a board into the 
hole Mike
had  dug  and held it there. Richie's transistor was hung by the strap in its 
accustomed place, on
the thick branch of a nearby shrub.

'Batteries  are  worn  out,'  Richie  said.  'You  had  to  have  my  last  
twenty-five cents for hinges,
remember?  Cruel,  Haystack,  very  cruel.  After  all  the  things  I've  done 
 for  you.  Besides,  all  I
can only get down here is WABI and they only play pansy rock.'

'Huh?' Mike asked.

'Haystack  thinks  Tommy  Sands  and  Pat  Boone  sing  rock  and  roll,'  
Richie  said,  'but  that's
because he's ill. Elvis  sings rock and roll.  Ernie K. Doe  sings rock and 
roll. Carl Perkins sings
rock and roll. Bobby Darin. Buddy Holly. "Ah-ow Peggy . . . my Peggy Suh-uh-oo 
. . "'

'Please, Richie,' Ben said.

'Also,'  Mike  said,  leaning  on  his  shovel,  'there's  Fats  Domino,  Chuck 
 Berry,  Little  Richard,
Shep  and  the  Limelights,  La  Verne  Baker,  Frankie  Lymon  and  the  
Teenagers,  Hank  Ballard


and  the  Midnighters,  the  Coasters,  the  Isley  Brothers,  the  Crests,  
the  Chords,  Stick  McGhee

— '

They were looking at him with such amazement that Mike laughed.

'You  lost  me  after  Little  Richard,'  Richie  said.  He  liked  Little  
Richard,  but  if  he  had  a
secret  rock-and-roll  hero  that  summer  it  was  Jerry  Lee  Lewis.  His  
mom  had  happened  to
come  into  the  living  room  while  Jerry  Lee was  performing on  American 
Bandstand.  This was
at  the  point  in  his  act  where  Jerry  Lee  actually  climbed  onto  his  
piano  and  played  it  upside
down  with  his  hair  hanging  in  his  face.  He  had  been  singing  'High  
School  Confidential.'  For  a
moment  Richie  believed  his  mom  was  going  to  faint.  She  didn't,  but  
she  was  so  traumatized
by  what  she  had  seen  that  she  talked  at  dinner  that  night  about  
sending  Richie  to  one  of  those
military-type  camps  for  the  rest  of  the  summer.  Now  Richie  shook  his 
 hair  down  over  his
eyes and began to sing: 'Come on over baby all the cats are at the high school 
rockin — '

Ben  began  to  stagger  around  the  hole,  grasping  his  large  belly  and  
pretending  to  puke.

Mike held his nose, but he was laughing so hard tears squirted out of his eyes.

'What's  wrong?'  Richie  demanded.  'I  mean,  what   ails  you  guys?  That  
was   good!  I mean,
that was really good!'

'Oh  man,'  Mike  said,  and  now  he  was  laughing  so  hard  he  could  
barely  talk.  'That  was
priceless. I mean, that was really priceless.'

'Negroes have no taste,' Richie said. 'I think it even says so in the Bible.'

'Yo   mamma,'   Mike   said,   laughing   harder   than   ever.   When   Richie 
  asked,   with   honest
bewilderment,  what  that  meant,  Mike  sat  down  with  a  thump  and  rocked 
 back  and  forth,
howling and holding his stomach.

'You probably think I'm jealous,' Richie said. 'You probably think I want to be 
a Negro.'

Now  Ben  also  fell  down,  laughing  wildly.  His  whole  body  rippled  and  
quaked  alarmingly.
His  eyes  bulged.  'No  more,  Richie,'  he  managed.  'I'm  gonna  shit  my  
pants.  I'm  gonna  d-d-die
if you don't stub-stop — '

'I  don't want to be a Negro,' Richie said. 'Who wants to wear pink pants and 
live in Boston
and buy pizza by the slice? I want to be Jewish like Stan. I want to own a 
pawnshop and sell
people switchblades and plastic dog-puke and used guitars.'

Ben  and  Mike  were  now  actually  screaming  with  laughter.  Their  
laughter  echoed  through
the  green  and  jungly  ravine  that  was  the  misnamed  Barrens,  causing  
birds  to  take  wing  and
squirrels   to   freeze  momentarily  on  limbs.  It  was  a  young  sound,  
penetrating,  lively,  vital,
unsophisticated,  free.  Almost  every  living  thing  within  range  of  that  
sound  reacted  to  it  in
some          way,  but  the  thing  which  had  tumbled  out  of  a  wide  
concrete  drain  and  into  the  upper
Kenduskeag   was   not   living.   The   previous   afternoon   there   had   
been   a   sudden   driving
thunderstorm  (the  clubhouse-to-be  had  not  been  much  affected  —  since  
digging  operations
had     begun,  Ben  had  covered  the  hole  carefully  each  evening  with  a 
 ragged  piece  of tarpaulin
Eddie  had  scrounged  from  behind  Wally's  Spa;  it  smelled  painty  but  
it  did  the  job),  and  the
stormdrains  under  Derry  had  run  with  violent  water  for  two  or  three  
hours.  It  was  that  spate
of       water that had pushed this unpleasant baggage into the sun for the 
flies to find.

It  was  the  body  of  a  nine-year old named Jimmy Cullum. Except for the 
nose, his face was
gone.  There  was  a  churned  and  featureless  mess  where  it  had  been.  
This  raw  meat  was  dotted

with  deep  black  marks  that  perhaps  only  Stan  Uris  would  have  
recognized  for  what  they
were: pecks. Pecks made by a very large beak.

Water  rilled  over  Jimmy  Cullum's  muddy  chino  pants.  His  white  hands  
floated  like  dead
fish.  They  had  also  been  pecked,  although  not  as  badly.  His  paisley  
shirt  ballooned  out  and
collapsed back, ballooned out and collapsed back, like a bladder.

Bill   and   Eddie,   loaded   down   with   boards   scrounged   from   the   
dump,   crossed   the
Kenduskeag  by  stepping-stones  less  than  forty  yards  from  the  body.  
They  heard  Richie,  Ben,


and  Mike  laughing,  smiled  a  little  themselves,  and  hurried  past  the  
unseen  ruin  of  Jimmy
Cullum to see what was so funny.

6

They  were  still  laughing  as  Bill  and  Eddie  came  into  the  clearing,  
sweating  under  their  load
of  lumber.  Even  Eddie,  usually  as  pale  as  cheese,  had  some  color  in 
 his  face.  They  dropped
the  new  boards  on  the  almost  depleted  supply-pile.  Ben  climbed  out  
of  the  hole  to  inspect
them.

'Good deal!' he said. 'Wow! Great!'

Bill collapsed to the ground. 'Can I h-have my heart a-a-attack now  or  do  I  
h-have to wuh-
wait until luh-hater?'

'Have  it  later,'  Ben  said  absently.  He  had  brought  a  few  tools  of  
his  own  down  to  the

Barrens  and  was  now  going  over  the  new  boards  carefully,  pounding  
out  nails  and  removing
screws.  He  tossed  one  aside  because  it  was  splintered.  Rapping  on  
another  returned  a  dull
punky  sound  in  at  least  three  places,  and  he  also  tossed  that  one  
aside.  Eddie  sat  on  a  pile  of
dirt,  watching  him.  He  took  a  honk  on  his  aspirator  as  Ben  pulled  
a  rusty  nail  from  a  board
with  the  claw  end  of  his  hammer.  The  nail  squealed  like  some  small  
unpleasant  animal  that
had been stepped on and didn't like it.

'You can get tetanus if you cut yourself on a rusty nail,' Eddie informed Ben.

'Yeah?' Richie said. 'What's titnuss? Sounds like a woman's disease.'

'You're  a  bird,'  Eddie  said.  'It's  tetanus,  not  titnuss,  and it means 
lock jaw. There's these
special  microbes  that  grow  in  rust,  see,  and  if  you  cut  yourself  
they  can  get  inside  your  body
and,  um,  fuck  up  your  nerves.'  Eddie  went an even darker red and took 
another fast honk on
his aspirator.

'Lock jaw, Jesus,' Richie said, impressed. 'That sounds mean.'

'You bet. First your jaw locks up so tight you can't open your mouth, not even 
to eat. They
have to cut a hole in your cheek and feed you liquids through a tube.'

'Oh man,' Mike said, standing up in the hole. His eyes were wide, the corneas 
very white in
his brown face. 'For sure?'

'My  mom  told  me,'  Eddie  said.  'Then  your  throat  locks  up  and  you  
can't  eat  anymore  and
you starve to death.'

They contemplated this horror in silence.

'There's no cure,' Eddie amplified.
More silence.

'So,' Eddie said briskly, 'I always watch out for rusty nails and shit like 
that. I had to have a
tetanus shot once and it really hurt.'

'So why'd you go to the dump with Bill and bring all this crap back?' Richie 
asked.

Eddie  glanced  briefly  at  Bill,  who  was  looking  into  the  clubhouse,  
and  there  was  all  the
love  and  hero-worship  in  that  gaze  needed  to  answer  such  a  question  
but  Eddie  said  softly,
'Some  stuff  has  to  be  done  even  if  there  is  a  risk.  That's  the  
first  important  thing  I  ever  found
out I didn't find out from my mother.'

A  further  silence,  not  quite  uncomfortable,  followed.  Then  Ben  went  
back  to  pounding  out
rusty nails, and after awhile Mike Hanlon joined him.

Richie's  transistor,  robbed  of  its  voice  (at  least  until  Richie's  
allowance  came  in  or  he  found

a  lawn  to  mow),  swung  from  its  low  branch  in  a  mild  breeze.  Bill  
had  time  to  reflect  upon
how  odd  all  this  was,  how  odd  and  how  perfect,  that  they  should  
all  be  here  this  summer.
There  were  kids  he  knew  visiting  relatives.  Kids  he  knew  who  were  
off  on  vacations  at
Disney  land  in  California  or  on  Cape  Cod  or,  in  the  case  of  one  
chum,  an  unimaginably


distant-sounding  place  with  the  queer  but  somehow  evocative  name  of  
Gstaad.  There  were
kids  at  church  camp,  kids  at  Scout  camp,  kids  at  rich-kid  camps  
where  you  could  learn  to
swim  and  play  golf,  camps  where  you  learned  to  say  'Hey,  good  one!' 
 instead  of  'Fuck you!'
when your opponent got a killer serve past you at tennis; kids whose parents 
had simply taken
them  AWAY.  Bill  could  understand  that.  He  knew  some  kids  who  wanted  
to  go  AWAY,
frightened  by  the  boogeyman  stalking  Derry  this  summer,  but  suspected  
there  were  more
parents  frightened  by  that  boogeyman.  People  who  had  planned  to  take  
their  vacations  at
home suddenly decided to go AWAY

(Gstaad? was that in Sweden? Argentina? Spain?)

instead.  It  was  a  little  like  the  polio  scare  of  1956,  when  four  
kids who went swimming in
the    O'Brian    Memorial    Pool    had    gotten    the    disease.    
Grownups   —    word   absolutely
synonymous   in   Bill's   mind   with   mothers   and   fathers  —  had  
decided  then,  as  now,  that
AWAY  was  better.  Safer.  Anyone  able  to  clear  out  had  cleared.  Bill  
understood AWAY, and
he could muse over a word of such fabulous wonder as Gstaad, but wonder was 
cold comfort
compared with desire; Gstaad was AWAY; Derry was desire.

And  none  of  us  have  gone  AWAY,   he  thought,  watching  as  Ben  and  
Mike  pounded  used
nails  out of used boards, as Eddie strolled off into the bushes to take a whiz 
(you had to go as
soon  as  you  could,  in  order  to  avoid  seriously  straining  your  
bladder,  he  told  Bill  once,  but
you also had to watch out for poison ivy, because who needed a case of  that on 
your pecker).
We're  all  here  in  Derry.  No  camp,  no  relatives,  no  vacations,  no  
AWAY.  All  right  here.
Present and accounted for.

'There's a door down there,' Eddie said, zipping his fly as he came back.

'Hope  you  shook  off,  Eds,'  Richie  said.  'If  you  don't  shake  off  
each  time,  you  can  get
cancer. My mom told me so.'

Eddie  looked  startled,  thinly  worried,  and  then  saw  Richie's  grin.  He 
 withered  him  (or  tried
to)  with  a  babies-must-play  look  and  then  said,  'It  was  too  big  for 
 us  to  carry.  But  Bill said if
all of us went down we could get it up here.'

'Of course, you can never shake off  completely,'  Richie went on. 'You want to 
know what a
wise man once told me, Eds?'

'No,'  Eddie  said,  'and  I  don't  want  you  to  call  me  Eds  anymore,  
Richie. I mean, I'm sincere.

I don't call you Dick, as in "You got any gum on ya, Dick?", so I don't see why 
— '

'This  wise  man,'  Richie  said,  'told  me  this:  "No  matter  how  much  
you  squirm  and  dance,
the  last  two  drops  go  in  your  pants."  And  that's  why  there's  so  
much  cancer  in  the  world,
Eddie my love.'

'The  reason  there's  so  much  cancer  in  the  world  is  because  nerds  
like  you  and  Beverly
Marsh smoke cigarettes,' Eddie said.

'Beverly  is  not  a  nerd,'  Ben  said  in  a  forbidding  voice.  'You  just  
watch  what  you  say,
Trashmouth.'

'Beep-beep,  you  g-guys,'  Bill  said  absently.  'And  speaking  of  
B-B-Beverly,  she's  pretty

struh-struh-strong. She could h-h-help get that duh-door.'
Ben asked what kind of door it was.

'Muh-Muh-hogany, I th-hink.'

'Somebody threw out a mahogany door?' Ben asked, surprised but not unbelieving.

'People throw out  everything,'  Mike said. 'That dump? It kills me to go down 
there. I mean
it kills me.'

'Yeah,'  Ben  agreed.  'A  lot  of  that  stuff  could  be  fixed  up  easy.  
And  there  are  people  in

China and South America with nothing. That's what my mother says.'

'There's people with nothing right here in Maine, Sunny Jim,' Richie said 
grimly.


'W-W-What's   th-this?'  Bill  asked,  noticing  the  album  Mike  had  
brought.  Mike  told him,
saying  he  would  show  them  the  picture  of  the  clown  when  Stan  and  
Beverly  got  back  with
the hinges.

Bill and Richie exchanged a look.

'What's wrong?' Mike asked. 'Is it what happened in your brother's room,
'Bill?'

'Y-Yeah,' Bill said, and would say no more.

They  took  turns  working  on  the  hole  until  Stan  and  Beverly  came  
back,  each  with  a  brown
paper  bag  containing  hinges.  As  Mike  talked,  Ben  sat  crosslegged,  
tailor-fashion,  and  made
glassless  windows  that  would  swing  open  and  shut  in  two  of  the  long 
 boards.  Perhaps  only
Bill  noticed  how  quickly  and  easily  his  fingers  moved;  how  adept  and 
 knowing  they  were,
like surgeon's fingers. Bill admired that.

'Some  of  these  pictures  go  back  a  hundred  years,  my  dad  said,'  Mike 
 told  them,  holding the
album  on  his  lap.  'He  gets  them  at  those  sales  people  have  in  
their  yards,  and  at  secondhand
shops.  Sometimes  he  buys  them  or  trades  other  collectors  for  them.  
Some  of  them  are
stereoscopes  —  there's  two  of  them  just  the  same  on  a  long  card,  
and when you look at them
through  this  thing  like  binoculars,  it  looks  like  one  picture,  only  
in  3-D. Like  House of Wax  or
The Creature from the Black Lagoon.'

'Why  does  he  like  all  that  stuff?'  Beverly  asked.  She  was  wearing  
ordinary  Levi's  but  she
had  done  something  amusing  to  the  cuffs,  blousing  them  out  with  a  
bright  paisley  material  for
the final four inches so that they looked like pants out of some sailor's 
whimsy.

'Yeah,' Eddie said. 'Most of the time, Derry's pretty boring.'

'Well,  I  don't  know  for  sure,  but  I  think  it's  because  he  wasn't  
born  here,'  Mike  said
diffidently. 'It's like  —  I  don't  know  — like it's all new to him, or 
like, you know, if you came
in during the middle of a movie — '

'Sh-sh-sure, you'd want to see the s-start,' Bill said.

'Yeah,'  Mike  said.  'There's  a  lot  of  history  lying  around  in  Derry.  
I  kind  of  like  it.  And  I
think some of it has to do with this thing — this It, if you want to call it 
that.'

He looked at Bill and Bill nodded, his eyes thoughtful.

'So  I  was  looking  through  it  after  the  Fourth  of  July  parade  
because  I  knew  I'd seen that
clown before. I knew it. And look.'

He  opened  the  book,  thumbed  through  it,  then  handed  it  to  Ben,  who  
was  sitting  on  his
right.

'D-D-Don't  t-t-touch  the  puh-puh-pages!'  Bill  said,  and  there  was  such 
 ur gency in his voice

that  they  all  jumped.  He  had  fisted  the  hand  he  had  cut  reaching  
into  Georgie's  album,  Richie
saw. Fisted it into a tight, protective knot.

'Bill's   right,'   Richie   said,   and   that   subdued,  totally   
un-Richielike  voice  was  a  powerful
convincer.  'Be  careful.  It's  like  Stan  said.  If  we  saw  it  happen,  
you  guys  could  see  it  happen,
too.'

'Feel it,' Bill added grimly.

The  album  went  from  hand  to  hand,  each  of  them  holding  the  book  
gingerly,  by  the  edges,
as if it were old dynamite sweating big beads of nitro.

It came back to Mike. He opened it to one of the first pages.

'Daddy  says  there's  no  way  to  date  that  one,  but  it's  probably  from 
 the  early  or  mid-
seventeen-hundreds,'  Mike  said.  'He  repaired  a  guy's  handsaw  for  a  
box  of  old  books  and
pictures. That was one of them. He says it might be worth forty bucks or even 
more.

The picture was a woodcut, the size of a large postcard. When Bill's turn came 
to look at it,
he  was  relieved to see that Mike's father had the land of album where the 
pictures were under
a  protective  plastic  sheet.  He  looked,  fascinated,  and  he  thought:  
There. I'm seeing him  — or
It. Really seeing. That's the face of the enemy.


The  picture  showed  a  funny  felow  juggling  oversized  bowling  pins  in  
the  middle  of  a
muddy  street.  There  were  a  few  houses  on  either  side  of  the  street, 
 and  a  few  huts  that  Bill
guessed  were  stores,  or  trading  posts,  or  whatever  they  called  them  
back  then.  It  didn't  look
like Derry at  all, except for the Canal.  It  was there, neatly cobbled on 
both sides. In the upper
background, Bill could see a team of mules on a towpath, dragging a barge.

There  was  a  group  of  maybe  half  a  dozen  kids  gathered  around  the  
funny  fellow.  One  of
them  was wearing a pastoral straw hat. Another had a hoop and a stick to roll 
it with. Not the
sort  of  stick  that  would  come  with  a  hoop  that  you  bought  today  in 
 a  Woolworth's;  it  was  a
branch  from  a  tree.  Bill  could  see  the  bare  knobs  on  it  where  
smaller  branches  had  been
lopped off with a knife or a hatchet. That  baby wasn't made in Taiwan or 
Korea,  he thought,
fascinated  by  this  boy  who  could  have  been  him  if  he'd  been  born  
four  or  five  generations
before.

The  funny  fellow  had  a  huge  grin  on  his  face.  He  wore  no  makeup  
(except  to  Bill  his
whole  face  looked  like  make-up),  but  he  was  bald  except  for  two  
tufts  of  hair  that  stuck  up
like  horns  over  his  ears,  and  Bill  had  no  trouble  recognizing  their  
clown.  Two  hundred  years
ago or more,   he  thought,  and  felt  a  crazy  surge  of  terror,  anger,  
and  excitement  rush  through
him.  Twenty-seven  years  later,  sitting  in  the  Derry  Public  Library  
and  remembering  his  first
look  into  Mike's  father's  album,  he  realized  he  had  felt  the  way  a  
hunter  might  feel,  coming
upon the first fresh spoor of an old killer tiger. Two hundred years ago . . . 
that long, and only
God  knows  how  much  longer.  This  led  him  to  wonder  just  how  long  
the  spirit  of  Pennywise
had been here in Derry — but he found that was a thought he did not really want 
to pursue.

'Gimme,  Bill!'  Richie  was  saying,  but  Bill  held  the  album  a  moment  
longer,  staring  fixedly
at  the  woodcut,  sure  it  would  begin  to  move:  the  bowling  pins  (if  
that's  what  they  were)
which  the  funny  fellow  was  juggling  would  rise  and  fall,  rise  and  
fall,  the  kids  would  laugh
and  applaud  (except  maybe  they  wouldn't  all  laugh  and  applaud;  some  
of  them  might  scream
and  run  instead),  the  mule -team  pulling  the  barge  would  move  beyond  
the  borders  of  the
picture.

It didn't happen, and he passed the book on to Richie.

When  the  album  came  back  to  Mike  he  turned  some  more  pages,  
hunting.  'Here,'  he  said.

This one is from 1856, four years before Lincoln was elected President.'

The  book  went  around  again.  This  was  a  color  picture  —  a  sort  of  
cartoon  —  which
showed  a  bunch  of  drunks  standing  in  front  of  a  saloon  while  a  fat 
 politician  with  muttonchop
whiskers  declaimed  from  a  board  that  had  been  set  between  two  
hogsheads.  He  held  a  foamy
pitcher  of  beer  in  one  hand.  The  board  upon  which  he  stood  was  
considerably bowed with his
weight.  Some  distance  off,  a  group  of  bonneted  women  were  looking  at 
 this  show  of  mingled
buffoonery  and  intemperance  with  disgust.  The  caption  below  the  
picture  read:  POLITICS  IS
THIRSTY WORK, SEZ SENATOR GARNER!

'Daddy  says  pictures  like  this  were  really  popular  for  about  twenty  
years  before  the  Civil
War,'  Mike  said.  'They  called  them  "foolcards,"  and  people  used  to  
send  them  to  each  other.
They were like some of the jokes in Mad, I guess.'

'Suh-suh-satire,' Bill said.

'Yeah,' Mike said. 'But now look down in the corner of this one.'

The picture was like  Mad  in another way  —  it had as many details and little 
side-jokes as a
big  Mort  Drucker  panel  in  a  Mad  magazine  movie  take-off.  There  was  
a  grinning  fat  man
pouring  a  glass  of  beer  down  a  spotted  dog's  throat.  There  was  a  
woman  who  had  fallen  on
her  prat  in  a  mudpuddle.  There  were  two  street  urchins  slyly  
sticking  sulphur -headed matches
into  the  soles  of  a  prosperous -looking   businessman's   shoes,   and   a 
  girl   swinging  from  her
heels  in  an  elm  tree  so  that  her  underpants  showed.  But  despite  
this  bewildering  intaglio  of
detail,  none  of  them  really  needed  Mike  to  point  the  clown  out.  
Dressed  in  a  loud  checked
vest-busting  drummer's  suit,  he  was  playing  the  shell-game  with  a  
bunch  of  drunken  loggers.


He  was  winking  at  a  lumber  jack  who  had,  to  judge  by  the  
gape-mouthed look of surprise on
his face, just picked the wrong nutshell. The drummer/clown was taking a coin 
from him.

'Him again,' Ben said. 'What . . . a hundred years later?'
'Just about,' Mike said. 'And here's one from 1891.'

It  was  a  clipping  from  the  front  page  of  the  Derry  News.  HUZZAH! 
the headline proclaimed
exuberantly.  IRONWORKS   OPENS!  Just  below  this:  'Town  Turns  Out  for  
Gala  Picnic.'  The
picture  showed  a  woodcut  of  the  ribbon-cutting  ceremony  at  the  
Kitchener  Ironworks;  its
style  reminded  Bill  of  the  Currier  and  Ives  prints  his  mother  had  
in  the  dining  room,  although
this  was  nowhere  near  as  polished.  A  fellow  tricked  out  in  a  
morning  coat  and  tophat was
holding  a  large  pair  of  open-jawed  scissors  above  the  Ironworks  
ribbon  while  a  crowd  of
perhaps  five  hundred  watched.  Off  to  the  left  was  a  clown  —  their  
clown  —  turning  a
handspring  for  a  group  of  children.  The  artist  had  caught  him  upside 
 down,  turning his smile
into           a scream.

He passed the book on quickly to Richie.

The  next  picture  was  a  photograph  under  which  Will  Hanlon  had  
written:  1933: Repeal in
Derry.  Although  none  of  the  boys  knew  much  about  either  the  Volstead 
 Act  or  its  repeal, the
picture  made  the  salient  facts  clear.  The  photo  was  of  Wally's  Spa  
down  in  Hell's  Half-Acre.
The  place  was  almost  literally  filled  to  the  rafters  with  men  
wearing  open-collared  white
shirts,  straw  boaters,  lumbermen's  shirts,  tee-shirts,  banker's  suits.  
All  of  them  were  holding
glasses  and  bottles  victoriously  aloft.  There  were  two  big  signs  in  
the  window.  WELCOME
BACK,  JOHN  BARLEYCORN!  one  read.  The  other  said:  FREE  BEER  TONIGHT.  
The clown, dressed
like  the  biggest  dandy  you  ever  saw  (white  shoes,  spats,  gangster  
pants),  had  his  foot  on  the
running board of a Reo auto and was drinking champagne from a lady's 
high-heeled shoe.

'1945,' Mike said.

The  Derry  News  again. The headline:   JAPAN  SURRENDERS  —  IT'S  OVER!  
THANK  GOD  IT'S
OVER!  A   parade   was  snake-dancing  its  way  along  Main  Street  toward  
Up-Mile  Hill.  And
there  was  the  clown  in  the  background,  wearing  his  silver  suit  with  
the  orange  buttons,  frozen
in  the  matrix  of  dots  that  made  up  the  grainy  newsprint  photo,  
seeming  to  suggest  (at  least  to
Bill)  that  nothing  was  over,  no  one  had  surrendered,  nothing  was  
won,  nil  was  still  the  rule,
zilch still the custom; seeming to suggest above all that all was still lost.

Bill felt cold and dry and scared.

Suddenly the dots in the picture disappeared and it began to move.
'That's what — ' Mike began.

'L-L-Look,'  Bill  said.  The  word  dropped  out  of  his  mouth  like  a  
partially  melted  ice-cube.

'A-A-All of you luh-look at th-this!'

They crowded around.

'Oh my God,' Beverly whispered, awed.

'That's IT!'  Richie  nearly  screamed,  pounding  Bill  on  the  back  in  his 
 excitement.  He  looked
around  at  Eddie's  white,  drawn  face  and  Stan  Uris's  frozen  one.  
'That's  what  we  saw  in
George's room! That's exactly what we —

'Shhh,'  Ben  said.  'Listen.'  And,  almost  sobbing:  'You  can  hear  them — 
Christ, you can hear
them in there.'

And  in  the  silence  that  was  only  broken  by  the  mild  stir  of  the  
summer  breeze,  they  all
realized  they  could.  The  band  was  playing  a  martial  marching  tune,  
made  faint  and  tinny  by
distance . . . or the passage of time . . . or whatever it was. The cheering of 
the crowd was like
sounds  that  might  come  through  on  a  badly  tuned  radio  station.  There 
 were  popping  noises,
also faint, like the muffled sound of snapping fingers.

'Firecrackers,' Beverly whispered, and rubbed at her eyes with hands that 
shook. 'Those are
firecrackers, aren't they?'

No one answered. They watched the picture, their eyes eating up their faces.


The  parade  wiggled  its  way  toward  them,  but  just  before the marchers 
reached the extreme
foreground  —  at the point where it seemed they must march right out of the 
picture and into a
world  thirteen  years  later   —  they  dropped  from  sight,  as  if  on  
some  kind  of  unknowable
curve.  The  World  War  I  soldiers  first,  their  faces  strangely  old  
under  their  pie -plate helmets,
with  their  sign  which  read  THE  DERRY  VFW  WELCOMES  HOME  OUR  BRAVE  
BOYS,  then the Boy
Scouts,  the  Kiwanians,  the  Home  Nursing  Corps,  the  Derry  Christian  
Marching  Band,  then
the  Derry  World  War  II  vets  themselves,  with  the  high-school  band  
behind  them.  The  crowd
moved  and  shifted.  Tickertape  and  confetti  fluttered  down  from  the  
second-  and  third-floor
windows   of   the   business   buildings   that   lined   the   streets.   The 
  clown   pranced   along   the
sidelines,  doing  splits  and  cartwheels,  miming  a  sniper,  miming  a  
salute.  And  Bill  noticed  for
the     first  time  that  people  were  turning  from  him —  but not as if 
they  saw  him, exactly; it was
more as if they felt a draft or smelled something bad.

Only the children really saw him, and they shrank away.

Ben stretched his hand out to the picture, as Bill had done in George's room.
'Nuh-Nuh-Nuh-NO!' Bill cried.

'I  think  it's  all  right,  Bill,'  Ben  said.  'Look.'  And  he  laid  his  
hand  on  the  protective  plastic
over the picture for a moment and then took it back. 'But if you stripped off 
that cover — '

Beverly  screamed.  The  clown  had  left  off  its  antics  when  Ben  
withdrew  his  hand.  It  rushed
toward  them,  its  paint-bloody  mouth  gibbering  and  laughing.  Bill  
winced  back  but  held  onto
the  book  all  the  same,  thinking  it  would  drop  out  of  sight  as  the  
parade  had  done,  and  the
marching  band,  and  the  Boy  Scouts,  and  the  Cadillac  convertible  
carrying  Miss  Derry  of
1945.

But  the  clown  did  not  disappear  along  that  curve  that seemed to define 
the edge of that old
existence.  Instead,  it  leaped  with  a  scary,  nimble  grace  onto  a  
lamppost  that  stood  in  the
extreme  left  foreground  of  the  picture.  It  shinnied  up  like  a  monkey 
 on  a  stick  —  and
suddenly  its  face  was  pressed  against   the  tough  plastic  sheet  Will  
Hanlon  had  put  over  each
of  the  pages  in  his  book.  Beverly  screamed  again  and  this  time  
Eddie  joined  her,  although  his
scream  was  faint  and  blue-breathless.  The  plastic  bulged  out  —  later  
they  would  all  agree
they  saw  it.  Bill  saw  the  bulb  of  the  clown's  red  nose  flatten,  
the  way  your  nose  will  flatten
when you press it against a windowpane.

'Kill you all!'  The clown was laughing and screaming.  'Try to stop me and 
I'll kill you all!
Drive you crazy and then kill you all! You can't stop me! I'm the Gingerbread 
Man! I'm the
Teenage Werewolf!'

And  for  a  moment  It  was  the  Teenage  Werewolf,  the  moon-silvered face 
of the lycanthrope
peering out at them from over the collar of the silver suit, white teeth bared.

'Can't stop me, I'm the leper!'

Now  the  leper's  face,  haunted  and  peeling,  rotting  with  sores,  stared 
 at  them  with  the  eyes
of the living dead.

'Can't stop me, I'm the mummy!'

The  leper's  face  aged  and  ran  with  sterile  cracks.  Ancient  bandages  
swam  halfway out of
its  skin  and  solidified  there.  Ben  turned  away,  his  face  as  white  
as  curds,  one  hand  plastered
over his neck and ear.

'Can't stop me, I'm the dead boys!'

'No!'   Stan  Uris  screamed.  His  eyes  bulged  above  braised-looking  
crescents  of  skin  —
shockflesh,  Bill  thought  randomly,  and  it  was  a  word  he  would  use  
in  a  novel  twelve  years
later,  with  no  idea  where  it  had  come  from,  simply  taking  it,  as  
writers  take  the  right  word  at
the right time, as a simple gift from that outer space

(otherspace)

where the good words come from sometimes.


Stan  snatched  the  album  from  his  hands  and  slammed  it  shut.  He  held 
 it closed with both
hands,   the   tendons   standing   out   along   the   inner   surfaces   of   
his   wrists   and   forearms.   He
looked  around  at  the  others  with  eyes  that  were  nearly  insane.  'No,' 
 he  said  rapidly.  'No,  no,
no.'

And  suddenly  Bill  found  he  was  more  concerned  with  Stan's  repeated  
denials  than  with  the
clown,  and  he  understood  that  this  was  exactly  the  sort  of  reaction  
the  clown  had  hoped  to
provoke, because . . .

Because maybe It's scared us . . . really scared for the first time in Its 
long, long life.

He  grabbed  Stan  and  shook  him  twice,  hard,  holding  onto  his  
shoulders.  Stan's  teeth
clicked  together  and  he  dropped  the  album.  Mike  picked it up and put it 
aside in a hurry, not
liking  to  touch  it  after  what  he  had  seen.  But  it  was  still  his  
father's,  and  he  understood
intuitively that his father would never see in it what he had just seen.

'No,' Stan said softly.
'Yes,' Bill said.

'No,' Stan said again.
'Yes. Wea-a-all — '
'No.'

' — a-a-all suh-haw it, Stan,' Bill said. He looked at the others.
'Yes,' Ben said.

'Yes,' Richie said.

'Yes,' Mike said. 'Oh my God, yes.'
'Yes,' Bev said.

'Yes,' Eddie managed, gasping it out of his rapidly closing throat.

Bill  looked  at  Stan,  demanding  with  his  eyes  that  Stan  look  back  at 
 him.  'Duh-don't  let  it  g-
g-get y-you, man,' Bill said. 'Yuh-you suh-saw it, t-t-too.'

'I didn't want to!' Stan wailed. Sweat stood out on his brow in an oily sheen.

'But y-y-you duh-duh-did.'

Stan  looked  at  the  others,  one  by  one.  He  ran  his  hands  through  
his  short  hair  and  fetched
up  a  great,  shuddering  sigh.  His  eyes  seemed  to  clear  of  that  
lowering  madness  that  had  so
disturbed Bill.

'Yes,' he said. 'Yes. Okay. Yes. That what you want? Yes.'

Bill thought: We're still all together. It didn't stop us. We can still kill 
It. We can still kill It

. . . if we're brave.

Bill  looked  around  at  the  others  and  saw  in  each  pair  of  eyes  some 
 measure  of  Stan's
hysteria. Not quite as bad, but there.

'Y-Y-Yeah,' he said, and smiled at Stan. After a moment Stan smiled back and 
some of that
horrible shocked look left his face. 'That's what I wuh-wuh-wanted, you 
weh-weh-wet end.'

'Beep-beep,  Dumbo,'  Stan  said,  and  they  all  laughed.  It  was  
hysterical  screaming  laughter,
but better than no laughter at all, Bill reckoned.

'C-C-Come   on,'   he   said,   because   someone   had   to   say   something. 
  'Let's   f-f-finish  the
clubhouse. What do you s-s-say?'

He  saw  the  gratitude  in  their  eyes  and  felt  a  measure  of  gladness  
for  them  .  .  .  but  their

gratitude  did  little  to  heal  his  own  horror.  In  fact,  there  was   
something  in  their  gratitude
which made him want to hate them. Would he never be able to express his own 
terror, lest the
fragile  welds  that  made  them  into  one  thing  should  let  go?  And  even 
 to  think  such  a  thing
wasn't  really  fair,  was  it?  Because  in  some  measure  at  least  he  was 
 using  them  — using his
friends,  risking  their  lives   —  to  settle  the  score  for  his  dead  
brother.  And  was  even  that  the
bottom?  No,  because  George  was  dead,  and  if  revenge  could  be  exacted 
 at  all,  Bill  suspected
it  could  only  be  exacted  on  behalf  of  the  living.  And  what  did  
that  make  him?  A  selfish  little
shit waving a tin sword and trying to make himself look like King Arthur?


Oh Christ, he groaned to himself, if this is the stuff adults have to think 
about I never want
to grow up.

His resolve was still strong, but it was a bitter resolve.
Bitter.


C H A P T E R  1 5

The Smoke-Hole

1

Richie Tozier pushes his glasses up on his nose (already the gesture feels 
perfectly familiar,
although he has worn contact lenses for twenty years) and thinks with some 
amazement that
the atmosphere has changed in the room while Mike recalled the incident with 
the bird out at
the Ironworks and reminded them about his father's photograph album and the 
picture that
had moved.

Richie  had  felt  a  mad,  exhilarating  kind  of  energy  growing  in  the  
room.  He  had  done
cocaine  nine  or  ten  times  over  the  last  couple  of  years  — at  
parties,  mostly;  coke  wasn't
something you wanted just lying around your house if you were a bigga-time disc 
jockey  —
and     the  feel  was  something  like  that,  but  not  exactly.  This  
feeling  was  purer,  more of a
mainline high. He thought he recognized the feeling from his childhood, when he 
had felt it
every day and had come to take it merely as a matter of course. He supposed 
that, if he had
ever thought about that deep-running aquifer of energy as a kid  (he could not 
recall that he
ever had), he would have simply dismissed it as a fact of life, something that 
would always be
there, like the color of his eyes or his disgusting hammertoes.

Well, that hadn't turned out to be true. The energy you drew on so 
extravagantly when you
were  a  kid,  the  energy  you  thought  would  never  exhaust  itself   —  
that  slipped  away
somewhere  between  eighteen  and  twenty-four,  to  be  replaced  by  
something  much  duller,
something  as  bogus  as  a  coke  high:  purpose,  maybe,  or  goals,  or 
whatever  rah-rah Junior
Chamber of Commerce word you wanted to use. It was no big deal; it didn't go 
all at once,
with    a bang. And maybe, Richie thought, that's the scary part. How you don't 
stop being a kid
all at once, with a big explosive bang, like one of that clown's trick balloons 
with the Burma-
Shave slogans on the sides. The kid in you just leaked out, like the air out of 
a tire. And one
day you looked in the mirror and there was a grownup looking back at you. You 
could go on
wearing blue-jeans, you could keep going to Springsteen and Seger concerts, you 
could dye
your hair, but that was a grownup's face in the mirror just the same. It all 
happened while
you were asleep, maybe, like a visit from the Tooth Fairy.

No, he thinks. Not the Tooth Fairy. The Age Fairy.

He laughs aloud at the stupid extravagance of this-image, and when Beverly 
looks at him
questioningly, he waves a hand at her. 'Nothing, babe, he says. 'Just thinkin 
me thinks.'

But now that energy is back. No, not all the way back  — not yet, anyway  — but 
coming
back. And it's not just him; he can feel it filling the room. Mike looks okay 
to Richie for the
first  time  since  they  all  got  together  for  that  hideous  lunch  out  
by  the  mall.  When  Richie
walked into the lobby and saw Mike sitting there with Ben and Eddie, he 
thought, shocked:
There's  a  man  who's  going  crazy,  getting  ready  to  commit  suicide,  
maybe.   But  that  look  is
gone now. Not just sublimated; gone. Richie has sat right here and watched the 
last of it slip
out  of  Mike's  face  while  he  relived  the  experience  of  the  bird  and  
the  album.  He's  been
energised. And it is the same with all of them. Its in their faces, their 
voices, their gestures.

Eddie  pours  himself  'another  gin-and-prune  juice.  Bill  knocks  back  
some  bourbon,  and
Mike  cracks  another  beer.  Beverly  glances  up  at  the  balloons  Bill  
has  tethered  to  the
microfilm recorder at the main desk and finishes her third screwdriver in a 
hurry. They have


all  been  drinking  pretty  enthusiastically,  but  none  of  them  are  
drunk.  Richie  doesn't  know
where that energy he feels is coming from, but its not out of a liquor bottle.

DERRY NIGGERS GET THE BIRD : Blue

THE LOSERS ARE STILL LOSING, BUT STANLEY URIS IS FINALLY AHEAD: Orange

Richie thinks, opening a fresh beer for himself, it isn't bad enough It can be 
any damn
monster It wants to be, and it isn't bad enough that It can feed off our fears. 
It also turns out to
be Rodney Dangerfield in drag.

It's Eddie who breaks the silence. 'How much do you think It knows about what 
we're doing
now?' he asks.

'It was here, wasn't It?' Ben says.

'I'm not sure that means much,' Eddie replies.

Bill nods. 'Those are just images,' he says. 'I'm not sure that means It can 
see us, or know
what we're up to. You can see a news commentator on TV, but he can't see you.'

'Those balloons aren't just images,' Beverly says, and jerks a thumb over her 
shoulder at

them. 'They're real.'

'That's not true, though,' Richie says, and they all look at him. 'Images  are 
real. Sure they
are. They —

And  suddenly  something  else  clicks  into  place,  something  new:  it  
clicks  into  place  with
such firm force that he actually puts his hands to his ears. His eyes widen 
behind his glasses.

'Oh my God!' he cries suddenly. He gropes for the table, half-stands, then 
falls back into
his chair with a boneless thud. He knocks his can of beer over reaching for it, 
picks it up, and
drinks what's left. He looks at Mike while the others look at him, startled and 
concerned.

'The burning!' he almost shouts. 'The burning in my eyes! Mike! The burning in 
my eyes —

'

Mike is nodding, smiling a little —
'R-Richie?' Bill asks. 'What i-is it?'

But  Richie  barely  hears  him.  The  force  of  the  memory  sweeps  through  
him  like  a  tide,

turning him alternately hot and cold, and he suddenly understands why these 
memories have
come back one at a time. If he had remembered everything at once, the force 
would have
been like a psychological shotgun blast let off an inch from his temple. It 
would have torn off
the whole top of his head.

'We saw It come!' he says to Mike. 'We saw It come, didn't we? You and me . . . 
or was it
just me?' He grabs Mike's hand, which lies on the table. 'Did you see it too, 
Mikey, or was it
just me? Did you see it? The forest fire? The crater?'

'I  saw  it,'  Mike  says  quietly,  and  squeezes  Richie's  hand.  Richie  
closes  his  eyes  for  a
moment, thinking he has never felt such a warm and powerful wave of relief in 
his life, not
even when the PSA jet he had taken from LA to San Francisco skidded off the 
runway and
just stopped there  — nobody killed, nobody even hurt. Some luggage had fallen 
out of the
overhead bins and that was all. He had jumped onto the yellow emergency slide 
and helped a
woman away from the plane. The woman had turned  her ankle on a hummock 
concealed in
the high grass. She was laughing and saying, 'I can't believe I'm not dead, I 
can't believe it, I
just can't believe it.' So Richie, who was half-carrying the woman with one arm 
and waving
with  the  other  to  the  firemen  who  were  making  frantic  come-on 
gestures to the deplaning
passengers,  said:  'Okay,  you're  dead,  you're  dead,  you  feel  better  
now?'  and  they  both
laughed crazily. That had been relief-laughter . . . but this relief is 
greater.

'What are you guys talking about?' Eddie asks, looking from one to the other.

Richie looks at Mike, but Mike shakes his head. 'You go ahead, Richie. I've had 
my say for
the evening.'

'The rest of you don't know or maybe don't remember, because you left,' Richie 
tells them.

'Me and Mikey, we were the last two Injuns in the smoke-hole.'


'The smoke-hole,' Bill muses. His eyes are far and blue.

'The burning sensation in my eyes,' Richie says, 'under my contact lenses. I 
felt it for the
first  time  right  after  Mike  called  me in California. I didn't know what 
it was then, but I do
now. It was smoke. Smoke that was twenty-seven years old.' He looks at Mike. 
'Psychological,
would you say? Psychosomatic? Something from the subconscious?'

'I would say not,' Mike answers quietly. 'I would say that what you felt was as 
real as those
balloons, or the head I saw in the icebox, or the corpse of Tony Tracker that 
Eddie saw. Tell
them, Richie.'

Richie  says:  'It  was  four  or  five  days  after  Mike  brought  his  dad's 
 album  down  to  the

Barrens. Sometime just after the middle of July, I guess. The clubhouse was 
done. But . . . the
smoke-hole thing, that was your idea, Haystack. You got it out of one of your 
books.'

Smiling a little, Ben nods.

Richie thinks:  It was overcast that day. No breeze. Thunder in the air. Like 
the day a month
or  so  later  when  we  stood  in  the  stream  and  made  a  circle  and  
Stan  cut  our  hands  with  that
chunk  of  Coke  bottle.  The  air  was  just  sitting  there,  waiting  for  
something  to  happen,  and
later Bill said that was why it got so bad in there so quick, because there was 
no draft.

July 17th. Yes, that was it, that had been the day of the smoke-hole. July 
17th, 1958, almost
a month after summer vacation began and the nucleus of the Losers — Bill, 
Eddie, and Ben

— had  formed  down  in  the  Barrens.  Let me look up the weather forecast for 
that day almost

twenty-seven  years  ago,  Richie  thinks,  and  I'll  tell  you  what  it  
said  before  I  even  read  it:
Richard  Tozier,  aka  the  Great  Mentalizer.  'Hot,  humid,  chance  of  
thundershowers. And watch
out for the visions that may come while you're down in the smoke-hole . . . '

It had been two days after the body of Jimmy Cullum was discovered, the day 
after Mr Nell
had come down to the Barrens again and sat right on the clubhouse without 
knowing it was
there,  because  by  then  they  had  capped  it  off  and  Ben  himself  had  
carefully  overseen  the
replacement of the sods. Unless you got right down on your hands and knees and 
crawled
around,  you'd  have  no  idea  anything  was  there.  Like  the dam, Ben's 
clubhouse had been a
roaring success, but this time Mr Nell didn't know anything about it.

He  had  questioned  them  carefully,  officially,  taking  down  their  
answers  in  his  black

notebook, but there had been little they could tell him — at least about Jimmy 
Cullum — and
Mr Nell had gone away again, after reminding them once more that they were not 
to play in
the Barrens alone . . . ever. Richie guessed that Mr Nell would have told them 
simply to get
out if anyone in the Derry Police Department had really believed that the 
Cullum boy (or any
of the others) had actually been killed in the Barrens. But they knew better; 
because of the
sewer and stormdrain system, that was simply where the remains tended to finish 
up.

Mr  Nell  had  come  on  the  16th, yes, a hot and humid day also, but sunny. 
The 17th had
been overcast.

'Are you going to talk to us or not, Richie?' Bev asks. She is smiling a 
little, her lips full
and a pale rose-red, her eyes alight.

'I'm just thinking about where to start,' Richie says. He takes his glasses 
off, wipes them on
his skirt, and suddenly he knows where: with the ground opening up at his and 
Bill's feet. Of
course he knew about the clubhouse — so did Bill and the rest of them, but it 
still freaked him
out, seeing the ground suddenly open on a slit of darkness like that.

He remembers Bill riding him double on the back of Silver to the usual place on 
Kansas
Street  and  then  stowing  his  bike  under  the  little  bridge.  He  
remembers  the  two  of  them
walking along the path toward the clearing, sometimes having to turn sideways 
because the
brush  was  so  thick  — it was midsummer now, and the Barrens was at that 
year's apogee
oflushness.  He  remembers  swatting  at  the  mosquitoes  that  hummed  
maddeningly  close  to
their  ears;  he  even  remembers  Bill  saying  (oh  how  clearly  it  all  
comes  back,  not  as  if  it
happened yesterday, but as if it is happening now), 'H-H-Hold it a s-s-s


2

— econd, Ruh-Richie. There's a damn guh-guh-hood one on the b-back of your 
neh-neck.'

'Oh  Christ,'  Richie  said.  He  hated  mosquitoes.  Little  flying  vampires, 
 that's  all  they  were
when you got right down to the facts. 'Kill it, Big Bill.'

Bill swatted the back of Richie's neck.
'Ouch!'

'Suh-suh-see?'

Bill held his hand in front of Richie's  face. There was a broken mosquito body 
in the center
of  an  irregular  patch  of  blood.   My blood,  Richie thought,  which  was  
shed  for  you  and  for
many. 'Yeeick,' he said.

'D-Don't w-worry,' Bill said. 'Li'l fucker'll neh-never dance the tuh-tuh-tango 
again.'

They  walked  on,  slapping  at  mosquitoes,  waving  at  the  clouds  of  
noseeums  attracted  by
something  in  the  smell  of  their  sweat   —  something  which  would  years 
 later  be  identified  as
'pheromones.' Whatever they were.

'Bill,  when  you  gonna  tell  the  rest  of  em  about  the  silver  
bullets?'  Richie  asked  as  they
approached  the  clearing.  In  this  case  'the  rest  of  them'  meant  Bev,  
Eddie,  Mike,  and  Stan  —
although  Richie  guessed  Stan  already  had  a  good  idea  of  what  they  
were  studying  up  on
down  at  the  Public  Library.  Stan  was  sharp  —  too sharp for his own 
good, Richie sometimes
thought.  The  day  Mike  brought  his  father's  album  down  to  the  Barrens 
 Stan  had  almost
flipped  out.  Richie  had,  in  fact,  been  nearly  convinced  that  they  
wouldn't  see  Stan  again  and
the  Losers'  Club  would  become  a  sextet  (a  word  Richie  liked  a  lot,  
always  with  the  emphasis
on  the  first  syllable).  But  Stan  had  been  back  the  next  day,  and  
Richie  had  —  respected  him
all the more for that. 'You going to tell them today?'

'Nuh-not t-today,' Bill said.

'You don't think they'll work, do you?'

Bill  shrugged,  and  Richie,  who  maybe  understood  Bill  Denbrough  better  
than  anyone  ever
would   until   Audra   Phillips,   suspected   all   the   things   Bill   
might   have   said   if   not   for   the
roadblock   of   his   speech  impediment:  that  kids  making  silver  bullets 
 was  boys'  book  stuff,
comic-book  stuff  .  .  .  In  a  word,  it  was  crap.  Dangerous  crap.  
They  could  try  it,  yeah.  Ben
Hanscom might even be able to bring it off, yeah. In a movie it would work, 
yeah. But . . .

'So?'

'I got an i-i-i-idea,' Bill said. 'Simpler. But only if Beh-Beh-Beverly — '
'If Beverly what?'

'Neh-hever mind.'

And Bill would say no more on the subject.

They  came  into  the  clearing.  If  you  looked  closely,  you  might  have  
thought  that  the  grass
there  had  a  slightly  matted  look  —  a  slightly  used  look.  You  might  
even  have  thought  that
there  was  something  a  bit  artificial  —  almost arranged  —  about the 
scatter of leaves and pine
needles  on  top  of  the  sods.  Bill  picked  up  a  Ring-Ding  wrapper  — 
Ben's, almost certainly  —
and put it absently in his pocket.

The  boys  crossed  to  the  center  of  the  clearing  .  .  .  and  a  piece  
of  ground  about  ten  inches
long  by  three  inches  wide  swung  up  with  a  dirty  squall  of hinges,  
revealing  a  black  eyelid.
Eyes  looked  out  of  that  blackness,  giving  Richie  a  momentary  chill.  
But  they  were  only  Eddie
Kaspbrak's  eyes,  and  it  was  Eddie,  whom  he  would  visit  in  the  
hospital  a  week  later,  who
intoned hollowly: 'Who's that trip-trapping on my bridge?'

Giggles from below, and a flashlight flicker.


'Thees    ees    the   rurales,    senhorr,'   Richie   said,   squatting   
down,   twirling   an   invisible
mustache, and speaking in his Pancho Vanilla Voice.

'Yeah?' Beverly asked from below. 'Let's see your badges.'

'Batches'?' Richie cried, delighted. 'We dean need no stinkin batches!'

'Go  to  hell,  Pancho,'  Eddie  replied,  and  slammed  the  big  eyelid  
closed.  There  were  more
muffled giggles from below.

'Come  out  with  your  hands  up!'  Bill  cried  in  a  low,  commanding  
adult  voice. He began to
tramp  back  and  forth  across  the  sod-covered  cap  of  the  clubhouse.  He 
 could  see  the  ground
springing  up  and  down  with  his  back-and-forth  passage,  but  just  
barely;  they  had  built  well.
'You  haven't  got  a  chance!'  he bellowed, seeing himself as fearless Joe 
Friday of the LAPD in
his mind's eye. 'Come on out of there, punks! Or we'll come in SHOOTIN!'

He  jumped  up  and  down  once  to  emphasize  his  point.  Screams  and  
giggles  from  below.
Bill  was  smiling,  unaware  that  Richie  was  looking  at  him  wisely —  
looking  at  him  not  as  one
child looks at another but, in that brief moment, as an adult looks at a child.

He doesn't know that he doesn't always, Richie thought.

'Let  them  in,  Ben,  before  they  crash  the  roof  in,'  Bev  said.  A  
moment  later  a  trapdoor
flopped  open  like  the  hatch  of  a  submarine.  Ben  looked  out.  He  was  
flushed.  Richie  knew  at
once that Ben had been sitting next to Beverly.

Bill  and  Richie  dropped  down  through  the  hatch  and  Ben  closed  it  
again.  Then  there  they
all  were,  sitting  snug  against  board  walls  with  their  legs  drawn  up, 
 their  faces  dimly  revealed
in the beam of Ben's flashlight.

'S-S-So wh-what's g-g-going o-on?' Bill asked.

'Not  too  much,'  Ben  said.  He  was  indeed  sitting  next  to  Beverly,  
and  his  face  looked  happy
as well as flushed. 'We were just — '

'Tell em, Ben,' Eddie interrupted. Tell em the story! See what they think.'

'Wouldn't   do   much   for   your   asthma,'   Stan   told   Eddie   in   his  
 best   someone-has-to-be-
practical-here tone of voice.

Richie  sat  between  Mike  and  Ben,  holding  his  knees  in  his  linked  
hands.  It  was  delightfully
cool  down  here,  delightfully  secret.  Following  the  gleam  of  the  
flashlight  as  it  moved  from
face  to  face,  he  temporarily  forgot  what  had  so  astounded  him  
outside  only  a  minute  ago.
'What are you talkin about?'

'Oh,  Ben  was  telling  us  a  story  about  this  Indian  ceremony,'  Bev  
said.  'But  Stan's  right,  it
wouldn't  be  very  good  for  your  asthma,  Eddie.'  'It  might  not  bother  
it,'  Eddie  said,  sounding

—  to  his  credit,  Richie  thought  —  only  a  little  uneasy.  'Usually  
it's  only  when  I  get  upset.

Anyway, I'd like to try it.'

Try w-w-what?' Bill asked him.

'The Smoke-Hole Ceremony,' Eddie said.
'W-W-What's th-that?'

The  beam  of  Ben's  flashlight  drifted  upward  and  Richie  followed  it  
with  his  eyes.  It  tracked

aimlessly  across  the  wooden  roof  of  their  clubhouse  as  Ben  explained. 
 It  crossed  the  gouged
and  splintered  panels  of  the  mahogany  door  the  seven  of  them  had  
carried  back  here  from  the
dump three days ago  —  the  day  before  the body of Jimmy Cullum was 
discovered. The thing
Richie  remembered  about  Jimmy  Cullum,  a  quiet  little  boy  who  also  
wore  spectacles,  was
that  he  liked  to  play  Scrabble  on  rainy  days.   Not  going  to  be  
playing  Scrabble  anymore,
Richie  thought,  and  shivered  a  little.  In  the  dimness  no  one  saw  
the  shiver,  but  Mike  Hanlon,
sitting shoulder to shoulder with him, glanced at him curiously.

'Well,  I  got  this  book  out  of  the  library  last  week,'  Ben  was  
saying.  'Ghosts  of  the  Great
Plains,  it's  called,  and  it's  all  about  the  Indian  tribes  that  lived 
 out  west  a  hundred  and  fifty
years ago. The Paiutes and the Pawnees and the Kiowas and the Otoes and the 
Comanches. It


was  really  a  good  book.  I'd  love  to  go  out  there  sometime  to  where 
 they  lived.  Iowa,
Nebraska, Colorado, Utah . . . '

'Shut up and tell about the Smoke-Hole Ceremony,' Beverly said, elbowing him.

'Sure,'  he  said.  'Right.'  And  Richie  believed  his  response  would  have 
 been  the  same  if
Beverly had given him the elbow and said, 'Drink the poison now, Ben, okay?'

'See,  almost  all  those  Indians  had  a  special  ceremony,  and  our  
clubhouse  made  me  think  of

it.  Whenever  they  had  to  make  a  big  decision  —  whether to move on 
after the buffalo herds,
or  to  find  fresh  water,  or  whether  or  not  to  fight  their  enemies  — 
 they'd dig a big hole in the
ground and cover it up with branches, except for a little vent in the top.'

'The smuh-smuh-smoke-hole,' Bill said.

'Your  quick  mind  never  ceases  to  amaze  me,  Big  Bill,'  Richie  said  
gravely.  'You  ought  to
go on Twenty-One. I'll bet you could even beat ole Charlie Van Doren.'

Bill  made  as  if  to  hit  him  and  Richie  recoiled,  bumping  his  head  a 
 pretty  good  one  on  a
piece of shoring.

'Ouch!'

'You d-deserved it,' Bill said.

'I keel you, rotten gringo sumbeesh,' Richie said. 'We doan need no stinkin — '

'Will  you  guys  stop  it?'  Beverly  asked.  'This  is  interesting.'  And 
she favored Ben with such
a  warm  look  that  Richie  believed  steam  would  start  curling  out  of  
Haystack's  ears  in  a  couple
of minutes.

'Okay, B-B-Ben,' Bill said. 'Go o-o-on.'

'Sure,'  Ben  said.  The  word  came  out  in  a  croak.  He  had  to  clear  
his  throat  and  start  again.
'When  the  smoke-hole  was  finished,  they'd  start  a  fire  down  there.  
They'd  use  green  wood  so
it  would  be  a  really  smoky  fire.  Then  all  the  braves  would  go  down 
 there  and  sit  around  the
fire.  The  place  would  fill  up  with  smoke.  The  book  said  this  was  a 
 religious  ceremony,  but  it
was  also  kind  of  a  contest,  you  know?  After  half  a  day  or  so  most 
 of  the  braves  would  bug
out  because  they  couldn't  stand  the  smoke  anymore,  and  only  two  or  
three  would  be  left.  And
they were supposed to have visions.'

'Yeah,  if  I  breathed  smoke  for  five  or  six  hours,  I'd  probably  have 
 some  visions,  all  right,'

Mike said, and they all laughed.

'The visions were supposed to tell the tribe what to do,' Ben said. 'And I 
don't know if this
part is true or not, but the book said that most times the visions were right.'

A  silence  fell  and  Richie  looked  at  Bill.  He  was  aware  that  they  
were  all  looking at Bill,
and  he  had  the  feeling — again  —  that  Ben's  story  of  the  smoke-hole  
was  more  than  a  thing
you  read  about  in  a  book  and  then  had  to  try  for  yourself,  like  a 
 chemistry  experiment  or  a
magic  trick.  He  knew  it,  they  all  knew  it.  Perhaps  Ben  knew  it   
most  of  all.  This  was
something they were supposed to do.

They were supposed to have visions . . . Most times the visions were right.

Richie  thought:  I'll   bet  if  we  asked  him,  Haystack  would  tell  us  
that  book  practically
jumped  into  his  hand.  Like something  wanted  him  to  read  that one 
particular book and then
tell us about the smoke-hole ceremony. Because there's a tribe right here, 
isn't there? Yeah.
Us. And, yeah, I guess we do need to know what happens next.

This thought led to another:  Was  this  supposed to happen? From the time Ben 
got the idea
for  an  underground  clubhouse  instead  of  a  treehouse,  was  this  
supposed  to happen? How
much of this are we thinking up ourselves, and how much is being thought up for 
us?

In  a  way,  he  supposed  such an  idea  should  have  been  almost  
comforting.  It  was  nice  to
imagine  that  something  bigger  than  you,  smarter  than  you,  was  doing  
your  thinking  for  you,
like  the  adults  that  planned  your  meals,  bought  your  clothes,  and  
managed  your  time  — and
Richie  was  convinced  that  the  force  that  had  brought  them  together,  
the  force  that  had  used


Ben  as  its  messenger  to  bring  them  the  idea  of  the  smoke-hole  —  
that  force  wasn't  the  same
as the one killing the children. This was some kind of counterforce to that 
other . . . to

(oh well you might as well say it)

It.  But  all  the  same,  he  didn't  like  this  feeling  of  not  being  in  
control  of  his  own  actions,  of
being managed, of being run.

They all looked at Bill; they all waited to see what Bill would say.

'Y-You nuh-nuh-know,' he said, 'that sounds rih-really n-neat.'
Beverly sighed and Stan stirred uncomfortably . . . that was all.

'Rih-rih-really  nuh-neat,'  Bill  repeated,  looking  down  at  his  hands,  
and  perhaps  it  was  only

the  uneasy  flashlight  beam  in  Ben's  hands  or  his  own  imagination,  
but  Richie  thought  Bill
looked  a  little  pale  and  a  lot  scared,  although  he  was  smiling.  
'Maybe  we  could  u-use a vih-
hision to tell us what to d-d-do about o-our pruh-pruh-hob-lem.'

And if anyone has a vision, Richie thought, it will be Bill. But about that he 
was wrong.
'Well,' Ben said, 'it probably only works for Indians, but it might be flippy 
to try it.'

'Yeah,  we'll  probably  all  pass  out  from  the  smoke  and  die  in  here,' 
 Stan  said  gloomily.

That'd be really flippy, all right.'

'You don't want to, Stan?' Eddie asked.

'Well, I sort of do,' Stan said. He sighed. 'I think you guys are making me 
crazy, you know
it?' He looked at Bill. 'When?'

Bill said, 'W-Well, nun-no t-time like the puh-puh-puh-hresent, i-is there?'

There  was  a  startled,  thoughtful  silence.  Then  Richie  got  to  his  
feet,  straight-arming the
trapdoor open and letting in the muted light of that still summer day.

'I  got  my  hatchet,'  Ben  said,  following  him  out.  'Who  wants  to  help 
 me  cut  some  green
wood?'

In the end they all helped.

3

It  took  them  about  an  hour  to  get  ready.  They  cut  four  or  five  
armloads  of  small  green
branches,  from  which  Ben  had  stripped  the  twigs  and  leaves.  'They'll  
smoke,  all  right,'  he
said.     'I don't even know if we'll be able to get them going.'

Beverly   and   Richie   went   down   to   the   bank   of   the   Kenduskeag  
 and   brought   back   a
collection  of  good-sized  stones,  using  Eddie's  jacket  (his  mother  
always  made  him  take  a
jacket,  even  if  it  was  eighty degrees  —  it  might  rain,  Mrs  Kaspbrak  
said,  and  if  you  have  a
jacket to put on, your skin won't get soaked if it does) as a makeshift sling. 
Carrying the rocks
back  to  the  clubhouse,  Richie  said:  'You  can't  do  this,  Bev.  You're  
a  girl.  Ben  said  it  was  just
the braves that went down in the smoke-hole, not the squaws.'

Beverly  paused,  looking  at  Richie  with  mixed  amusement  and  irritation. 
 A  lock  of  hair  had
escaped from her pony-tail; she pushed out her lower lip and blew it off her 
forehead.

'I could wrestle you to a fall any day, Richie. And you know it.'

'Dat  doan  mattuh,  Miss  Scawlett!'  Richie  said,  popping  his  eyes  at  
her.  'You  is  still  a  girl
and you is always goan be a girl! You sho ain't no Injun brave!'

'I'll  be  a  bravette,  then,'  Beverly  said.  'Now  are  we  going  to  take 
 these  rocks  back  to  the

clubhouse or am I going to bounce a few of them off your asshole skull?'

'Lawks-a-mussy,  Miss  Scawlett,  I  ain't  got  no  asshole  in  man skull!'  
Richie screeched, and
Beverly  laughed  so  hard  she  dropped  her end of Eddie's jacket and all the 
stones fell out. She
scolded  Richie  all  the  time  they  were  picking  them  up  again,  and  
Richie  joked  and  screeched
in many Voices, and thought to himself how beautiful she was.


Although  Richie  had  not  been  serious  when  he  spoke  of  excluding  her  
from  the  smoke-
hole on the basis of her sex, Bill Denbrough apparently was.

She  stood  facing  him,  her  hands  on  her  hips,  her  cheeks  flushed  
with  anger.  'You  can  just
take  that  and  stuff  it  with  a  long  pole,  Stuttering  Bill!  I'm in on 
this too, or aren't I a member
of your lousy club anymore?'

Patiently,  Bill  said:  'I-It's  not  l-like  that,  B-B-Bev,  and  y-you 
nun-know  i-it. Somebody  has

to stay u-uh-up here.'

'Why?

Bill tried, but the roadblock was in again. He looked at Eddie for help.

'It's  what  Stan  said,'  Eddie  told  her  quietly.  'About  the  smoke.  
Bill  says  that  might  really
happen — we could pass out down there. Then we'd die. Bill says that's what 
happens to most
people in housefires. They don't burn up. They choke to death on the smoke. 
They — '

Now she turned to Eddie. 'Well, okay. He wants somebody to stay up on top in 
case there's
trouble?'

Miserably, Eddie nodded.

'Well, what about you? You're the one with the asthma.'

Eddie   said   nothing.   She  turned  back  to  Bill.  The  others  stood  
around,  hands  in  their
pockets, looking at their sneakers.

'It's because I'm a girl, isn't it? That's really it, isn't it?'

'Beh-Beh-Beh-Beh — '

'You  don't  have  to  talk,'  she  snapped.  'Just  nod  your  head  or  shake 
 it.  Your  head  doesn't
stutter, does it? Is it because I'm a girl?'

Reluctantly, Bill nodded his head.

She  looked  at  him  for  a  moment,  her  lips  trembling,  and  Richie  
thought  she  would  cry.

Instead, she exploded.

'Well,  fuck you!'  She  whirled around to look at the others, and they 
flinched from her gaze,
so  hot  it  was  nearly  radioactive.  'Fuck  all of you if you think the same 
thing!' She turned back
to  Bill  and  began  to  talk  fast,  rapping  him  with  words.  'This  is  
something  more  than  some
diddlyshit  kid's  game  like  tag  or  guns  or  hide-and-go-seek,  and  you  
know  it,   Bill.  We're
supposed  to do this. That's  part  of  it.  And  you're  not  going  to  cut  
me  out  just  because  I'm  a
girl.    Do  you  understand?  You  better,  or  I'm  leaving  right  now.  And 
 if  I  go,  I'm  gone.  For
good. You understand?'

She  stopped.  Bill  looked  at  her.  He  seemed  to  have  regained  his  
calm,  but  Richie  felt
afraid.  He  felt  that  any  chance  they  had  of  winning,  of  finding  a  
way  to  get  to  the  thing  that
had  killed  Georgie  Denbrough  and  the  other  kids,  getting  to  It  and  
killing  It,  was  now  in
jeopardy. Seven, Richie thought. That's the magic number. There has to be seven 
of us. That's
the way it's supposed to be.

A bird sang somewhere; stopped; sang again.

'A-A11  r-right,'  Bill  said,  and  Richie  let  his  breath  out.  'But  
suh-suh-somebody  has  to  s-
stay tuh-hopside. Who w-w-wants to d-do it?'

Richie  thought  Eddie  or  Stan  would  surely  volunteer  for  this  duty,  
but  Eddie  said  nothing.
Stan  stood  pale  and  thoughtful  and  silent.  Mike  had  his  thumbs  
hooked  into  his  belt  like

Steve McQueen in Wanted: Dead or Alive, nothing moving but his eyes.

'Cuh-cuh-come  o-on,'  Bill  said,  and  Richie  realized  that  all  pretense  
had  gone  out  of  the
thing  now;  Bev's  impassioned  speech  and  Bill's  grave,  too-old face had 
seen to that. This was
a  part  of  it,  perhaps  as  dangerous  as  the  expedition  he  and  Bill  
had  made  to  the  house  at  29
Neibolt Street. They knew it . . . and no one was backing down. Suddenly he was 
very proud
of  them,  very  proud  to  be  with them. After all the years of being counted 
out, he was counted
in.  Finally  counted  in.  He  didn't  know  if  they  were  still  losers  or 
 not,  but  he  knew  they  were


together.  They  were  friends.  Damn  good  friends.  Richie  took  his  
glasses  off  and  rubbed  them
vigorously with the tail of his shirt.

'I know how to do it,' Bev said, and took a book of matches from her pocket. On 
the front,
so  tiny  you'd  need  a  magnifying  glass  to  get  a  really  good  look  at 
 them,  were  pictures  of  that
year's  candidates  for  the  title of Miss Rheingold. Beverly lit a match and 
then blew it out. She
tore  out  six  more  and  added  the  burned  match.  She  turned  away  from  
them,  and  when  she
turned back the white ends of the seven matches poked out of her closed fist. 
'Pick,' she said,
holding the  matches  out  to  Bill.  'The  one  who  picks  the  match  with  
the  burned  head  stays  up
here and pulls the rest out if they go flippy.'

Bill looked at her levelly. 'Th-This is h-h-how you w-want i-it?'

She  smiled  at  him  then,  and  her  smile  made  her  face radiant. 'Yeah, 
you big dummy, this is
how I want it. What about you?'

'I luh-luh-love you, B-B-Bev,' he said, and color rose in her cheeks like hasty 
flames.

Bill  did  not  appear  to  notice.  He  studied  the  match-tails  sucking  
out  of  her  fist,  and  at
length  he  picked  one.  Its  head  was  blue  and  unburned.  She  turned  to 
 Ben  and  offered  the
remaining six.

'I  love  you  too,'  Ben  said  hoarsely.  His  face  was  plum-colored;  he  
looked  like  he  was  on
the  verge  of  a  stroke.  But  no  one  laughed.  Somewhere  deeper  in  the  
Barrens,  the  bird  sang
again. Stan would know what it was, Richie thought randomly.

'Thank you,' she said, smiling, and Ben picked a match. Its head was unburned.

She  offered  them  to  Eddie  next.  Eddie  smiled,  a  shy  smile  that  was  
incredibly  sweet  and
almost  heartbreakingly  vulnerable.  'I  guess  I  love  you,  too,  Bev,'  he 
 said,  and  then  picked  a
match blindly. Its head was blue.

Beverly now offered the four match-tails in her hand to Richie.

'Ah   loves   yuh,   Miss   Scawlett!'   Richie   screamed   at   the   top   
of   his   voice,   and   made
exaggerated  kissing  gestures  with  his  lips.  Beverly  only  looked  at  
him,  smiling  a  little,  and
Richie  suddenly  felt  ashamed.  'I  do  love  you,  Bev,'  he  said,  and  
touched  her  hair.  'You're
cool.'

'Thank you,' she said.

He picked a match and looked at it, positive he'd picked the burned one. But he 
hadn't.
She offered them to Stan.

'I love you,' Stan said, and plucked one of the matches from her fist. Unburned.
'You and me, Mike,' she said, and offered him his pick of the two left.

He  stepped  forward.  'I  don't  know  you  well  enough  to  love  you,'  he  
said,  'but  I  love  you

anyway. You could give my mother shoutin lessons, I guess.'

They all laughed, and Mike took a match. Its head was also unburned.
'I guess it's y-y-you a-after all, Bev,' Bill said.

Looking disgusted — all that flash and fire for nothing — Beverly opened her 
hand.
The head of the remaining match was also blue and unburned.

'Y-Y-You jih-jig-jiggered them,' Bill accused.

'No.  I  didn't.'  Her  tone  was  not  one  of  angry  protest  — which would 
have been suspect  —
but flabbergasted surprise. 'Honest to God I didn't.'

Then  she  showed  them  her  palm.  They  all  saw  the  faint  mark  of  soot 
 from  the  burned
match-head there.

'Bill, I swear on my mother's name!'

Bill  looked  at  her  for  a  moment  and  then  nodded.  By  common  unspoken 
 consent,  they  all
handed  the  matches  back  to  Bill.  Seven  of  them,  their  heads  intact.  
Stan  and  Eddie  began  to
crawl around on the ground, but there was no burned match there.

'I didn't,' Beverly said again, to no one in particular.

'So what do we do now?' Richie asked.


'We a-a-all go down,' Bill said. 'Because that's w-what w-w-we're suh-supposed 
to do.'
'And if we all pass out?' Eddie asked.

Bill  looked  at  Beverly  again.  'I-If  B-Bev's  t-telling  the  truh-truth,  
and  s-she  i-i-is,  w-we
won't.'

'How do you know? Stan asked.
'I-I j-just d-d-do.'

The bird sang again.

4

Ben  and  Richie  went  down  first  and  the  others  handed  the  rocks  down 
 one  by  one.  Richie
passed  them  on  to  Ben,  who  made  a  small  stone  circle  in  the  middle 
 of  the  dirt  clubhouse
floor. 'Okay,' he said. That's enough.'

The  others  came  down,  each  with  a  handful  of  the  green  twigs  they'd 
 cut  with  Ben's
hatchet.  Bill  came  last.  He  closed  the  trapdoor  and  opened  the  
narrow  hinged  window.  Th-
Th-There,' he said. 'Th-there's our smuh-smoke-hole. Do we h-have any 
kih-kih-kin-dling?'

'You  can  use  this,  if  you  want,'  Mike  said,  and  took  a  battered  
Archie  funnybook out of his
hip pocket. 'I read it already.'

Bill  tore  the  pages  out  of  the  funnybook  one  by  one,  working  slowly 
 and  gravely.  The
others  sat  around  the  walls,  knee  to  knee  and  shoulder  to  shoulder,  
watching,  not  speaking.
The tension was thick and still.

Bill laid small twigs and branches over the paper and then looked at Beverly. 
'Y-Y-You  g-
got the muh-matches,' he said.

She  lit  one,  a  tiny  yellow  flare  in  the  gloom.  'Darn  thing  probably 
 won't  catch  anyway,'  she
said  in  a  slightly  uneven  voice, and  touched  a  light  to  the  paper  
in  several  places.  When  the
matchflame got close to her fingers, she tossed it into the center.

The  flames  blazed  up  yellow,  crackling,  throwing  their  faces  into  
sharp  relief,  and  in  that
moment  Richie  had  no  trouble  believing  Ben's  Indian  story,  and  he  
thought  it  must  have  been
like this back in those old days when the idea of white men was still no more 
than a rumor or
a  tall  tale  to  those  Indians  who  followed  buffalo  herds  so  big  they 
 could  cover  the  earth  from
horizon  to  horizon,  herds  so  big  that  their  passing  shook  the  ground 
 like  an  earthquake.  In
that  moment  Richie  could  picture  those  Indians,  Kiowas  or  Pawnees  or  
whatever  they  were,
down  in  their  smoke-hole,  knee  to  knee  and  shoulder  to  shoulder,  
watching  as  the  flames
guttered  and  sank  into  the  green  wood  like  hot  sores,  listening  to  
the  faint  and  steady ssssss of
sap oozing out of the damp wood, waiting for the vision to descend.

Yeah.  Sitting  here  now  he  could  believe  it  all  .  .  .  and  looking  
at  their  somber faces as they
studied  the  flames  and  the  charring  pages  of  Mike's  Archie  funny  
book,  he  could  see  that  they
believed it, too.

The  branches  were  catching.  The  clubhouse  began  to  fill  up  with  
smoke.  Some  of  it,  white
as   cotton   smoke-signals   in   a   Saturday-matinee   movie   starring   
Randolph   Scott   or   Audie
Murphy,  escaped  from  the  smoke-hole. But with no moving air outside to 
create a draft, most
of          it  stayed  below.  It  had  an  acrid  bite  that  made  eyes  
sting  and  throats  throb.  Richie  heard
Eddie  cough  twice  —  a  flat  sound  like  dry  boards  being  whacked  
together  —  and then fall
silent  again.  He  shouldn't  be  down  here,   he  thought  .  .  .  but  
something  else  apparently  felt
otherwise.

Bill  tossed  another  handful  of  green  twigs  on  the  smoldering  fire  
and  asked  in  a thin voice
that was not much like his usual speaking voice: 'Anyone having a-any 
vih-vih-visions?'

'Visions  of  getting  out  of  here,'  Stan  Uris  said.  Beverly  laughed  at 
 this,  but  her  laughter
turned into a fit of coughing and choking.


Richie  leaned  his  head  back  against  the  wall  and  looked  up  at  the  
smoke-hole  —  a  thin
rectangle  of  mellow  white  light.  He  thought  about  the  Paul  Bunyan  
statue  that  day  in  March  .

. . but that had only been a mirage, a hallucination, a

(vision)

'Smoke's killin me,' Ben said. 'Whoo!'

'So  leave,'  Richie  murmured,  not  taking  his  eyes  off  the  smoke-hole.  
He  felt  as  if  he  was
getting  a  handle  on  this.  He  felt  as  if  he  had  lost  ten  pounds.  
And  he  sure  as  shit  felt  as  if  the
clubhouse   had   gotten   bigger.   Damn   straight   on   that   last.   He   
had   been   sitting   with   Ben
Hanscom's  fat  right  leg  squashed  against  his  left  one  and  Bill  
Denbrough's  bony  left  shoulder
socked  into  his  right  arm.  Now  he  was  touching  neither  of  them.  He  
glanced  lazily  to  his  right
and left  to  verify  that his perception was true, and it was. Ben was a foot 
or so to his left. On
his right, Bill was even farther away.

'Place is bigger, friends and neighbors,' he said. He took a deeper breath and 
coughed hard.
It  hurt,  hurt  deep  in  his  chest,  the  way  a   cough  hurt  when  you  
had  the  flu  or  the  grippe  or
something.  For  awhile  he  thought  it  would  never  pass;  that  he  would  
just  go  on  coughing
until they had to pull him out.  If  they  still  can,   he thought, but the 
thought was really too dim
to be frightening.

Then Bill was pounding him on the back, and the coughing fit passed.

'You  don't  know  you  don't  always,'  Richie  said.  He  was  looking  at  
the  smoke-hole  again
instead  of  at  Bill.  How  bright  it  seemed!  When  he  closed  his  eyes  
he  could  still  see  the
rectangle, floating there in the dark, but bright green instead of bright 
white.

'Whuh-whuh-what do you m-mean?' Bill asked.

'Stutter.'  He  paused,  aware  that  someone  else  was  coughing  but  not  
sure  who  it  was.  'You
ought to do the Voices, not me, Big Bill. You — '

The  coughing  got  louder.  Suddenly  the  clubhouse  was  flooded  with  
daylight,  so  sudden
and  so  bright  Richie  had  to  squint  against  it.  He  could  just  make  
out  Stan  Uris,  climbing  and
clawing his way out.

'Sorry,' Stan managed, through his spasmodic coughing. 'Sorry, can't — '

'It's  all  right,'  Richie  heard  himself  say.  'You  doan  need  no  
stinkin'  batches.'  His  voice
sounded as if it were coming from a different body.

The  trapdoor  slammed  shut  a  moment  later,  but  enough  fresh  air  had  
come in to clear his

head  a  little.  Before  Ben  moved  over  a  little  to  fill  the  space  
Stan  had  vacated,  Richie  became
aware  of  Ben's  leg  again,  pressing  his.  How  had  he  gotten  the  idea  
that  the  clubhouse  had
gotten bigger?

Mike  Hanlon  threw  more  sticks  on  the  smoky  fire.  Richie  resumed  
taking  shallow  breaths
and  looking  up  at  the  smoke-hole.  He  had  no  sense  of  real  time  
passing,  but  he  was  vaguely
aware that, in addition to the smoke, the clubhouse was getting good and hot.

He   looked   around,   looked   at   his   friends.   They   were   hard   to  
 see,   half-swallowed   in
shadowsmoke  and  still  white  summerlight.  Bev's  head  was  tilted  back  
against  a  piece  of
shoring,  her  hands  on  her  knees,  her  eyes  closed,  tears  trickling  
down  her  cheeks  toward  her
earlobes. Bill was sitting cross-legged, his chin on his chest. Ben was —

But suddenly Ben was getting to his feet, pushing the trapdoor open again.

'There  goes  Ben,'  Mike  said.  He  was  sitting  Indian-fashion  directly  
across  from  Richie,  his
eyes as red as a weasel's.

Comparative  coolness  struck  them  again.  The  air  freshened  as  smoke  
swirled  up  through
the  trap.  Ben  was  coughing  and  dry-retching.  He  pulled  himself  out  
with  Stan's  help,  and
before  either  of  them  could  close  the  trapdoor,  Eddie  was  staggering  
to  his  feet,  his  face  a
deadly  pale  except  for  the  bruised-looking  patches  under  his  eyes  and 
 traced  just  below  his
cheekbones.  His  thin  chest  was  hitching  up  and  down  in  quick,  
shallow  spasms.  He  groped


weakly  for  the  edge  of  the  escape  hatch  and  would  have  fallen  if  
Ben  had  not  grabbed
hand and Stan the other.

'Sorry,'   Eddie  managed  in  a  squeaky  little  whisper,  and  then  they  
hauled  him  up.  The
trapdoor banged down again.

There  was  a  long,  quiet  period.  The  smoke  built  up  until  it  was  a  
thick  still  fog  in  the
clubhouse.  Looks  like  a  pea-souper  to  me,  Watson,  Richie  thought,  and 
 for  a  moment  he
imagined  himself  as  Sherlock  Holmes  (a  Holmes  who  looked  a  great  
deal  like  Basil  Rathbone
and  who  was  totally  black  and  white),  moving  purposefully  along  Baker 
 Street; Moriarty was
somewhere near, a hansom cab awaited, and the game was afoot.

The  thought  was  amazingly  clear,  amazingly solid.  It  seemed  almost  to  
have  weight,  as  if  it
were  not  a  little  pocket-daydream  of  the  sort  he  had  all  the  time  
(batting  cleanup  for the
Bosox, bottom of the ninth, bases loaded, and there it goes, it's up . . . ITS 
GONE! Home run,
Tozier . . . and that breaks the Babe's record!), but something that was almost 
real.

There  was  still  enough  of  the  wiseacre  in  him  to  think  that  if all  
he  was  getting  out  of  this
was a vision of Basil Rathbone as Sherlock Holmes, then the whole idea of 
visions was pretty
overrated.

Except of course it isn't Moriarty that's out there. It's out there  — some It 
— and It's real.

It —

Then  the  trapdoor  opened  again  and  Beverly  was  struggling  her  way  
out,  coughing  dryly,
one  hand  cupped  over  her  mouth.  Ben  got  one  hand  and  Stan  grabbed  
her  under  the  other
arm. Half-pulled, half-scrambling under her own power, she was up and gone.

'Ih-Ih-It i-is bi-higger,' Bill said.

Richie  looked  around.  He  saw  the  circle  of  stones  with  the  fire  
smoldering  within,  fuming
out  clouds  of  smoke.  Across  the  way  he  saw  Mike  sitting  cross-legged 
 like  a  totem  carved
from  mahogany,  staring  at  him  through  the  fire  with  his  
smoke-reddened  eyes.  Except  Mike
was  better  than  twenty  yards  away,  and  Bill  was  even  farther  away,  
on  Richie's  right.  The
underground clubhouse was now at least the size of a ballroom.

'Doesn't matter,' Mike said. 'It's gonna come pretty quick. Somethin is.'
'Y-Y-Yeah,' Bill said. 'But I . . . I . . . I — '

He  began  to  cough.  He  tried  to  control  it,  but  the  cough  worsened,  
a  dry  rattling.  Dimly
Richie saw Bill stumble to his feet, lunge for the trapdoor, and shove it open.

'Guh-Guh-Good luh-luh-luh — '

And then he was gone, dragged up by the others.

'Looks  like  it's  you  and  me,  ole  Mikey,'  Richie  said,  and  then  he  
began  to  cough  himself.  'I
thought for sure that it would be Bill — '

The  cough  worsened.  He  doubled  over,  hacking  dryly,  unable  to  get  
his  breath.  His  head
was  thudding  —  whacking  —  like  a  turnip  filled  with  blood.  His  eyes 
 teared  behind  his
glasses.

From  far  away,  he  heard  Mike  saying:  'Go  on  up  if  you  have  to,  
Richie.  Don't  go  flippy.

Don't kill yourself.'

He raised a hand toward Mike and flapped it at him

(no stinkin batches)

in  a  negative  gesture.  Little  by  little  he  began  to  get  the  
coughing  under  control  again.
Mike  was  right;  something  was  going  to  happen,  and  soon.  He  wanted  
to  still  be  here when it
did.

He  tilted  his  head  back  and  looked  up  at  the  smoke-hole  again.  The  
coughing  fit  had  left
him  feeling  light-headed,  and  now  he  seemed  to  be  floating  on  a  
cushion  of  air.  It  was  a
pleasant  feeling.  He  took  shallow  breaths  and  thought:  Someday  I'm  
going  to  be  a  rock-and-
roll star. That's it, yes. I'll be famous. I'll make records and albums and 
movies. I'll have a
black  sportcoat  and  white  shoes  and  a  yellow  Cadillac.  And  when  I  
come  back  to  Derry,


they'll all eat their hearts out, even Bowers. I wear glasses, but what the 
fuck? Buddy Holly
wears glasses. I'll bop till I'm blue and dance till Fm black. I'll be the 
first rock-and-roll star
to ever come from Maine. I'll —

The  thought  drifted  away.  It  didn't  matter.  He  found  that  now  he  
didn't  need  to  take
shallow  breaths.  His  lungs  had  adapted.  He  could  breathe  as  much  
smoke  as  he  wanted.
Maybe he was from Venus.

Mike  threw  more  sticks  on  the  fire.  Not  to  be  outdone,  Richie  
tossed  on  another  handful
himself.

'How you feeling, Rich?' Mike asked.

Richie smiled. 'Better. Good, almost. You?'

Mike nodded and smiled back. 'I feel okay. Have you been having some funny 
thoughts?'

'Yeah.  Thought  I  was  Sherlock  Holmes  for  a  minute  there.  Then  I  
thought  I  could  dance
like the Dovells. Your eyes are so red you wouldn't believe it, you know it?'

'Yours too. Just a coupla weasels in the pen, that's what we are.'

'Yeah?'

'Yeah.'

'You wanna say all right?'

'All right. You wanna say you got the word?'
'I got it, Mikey.'

'Yeah, okay.'

They  grinned  at  each  other  and  then  Richie  let  his  head  tilt  back  
against  the  wall  again  and
looked  up  at  the  smoke-hole.  Shortly  he  began  to  drift  away.  No  .  
.  .  not  away.  Up. He was
drifting up. Like

(float down here we all)

a balloon.

'Yuh-yuh-you g-g-guys all ri-right?'

Bill's  voice,  coming  down  through  the  smoke-hole.  Coming  from  Venus.  
Worried.  Richie
felt himself thud back down inside himself.

'All  right,'  he  heard  his  voice,  distant,  irritated.  'All  right, we  
said  all right, be quiet, Bill, let

us get the word, we wanna say we got the

(world)

word.'

The  clubhouse  was  bigger  than  ever,  floored  now  in  some  polished  
wood.  The  smoke  was
fog-thick  and  it  was  hard  to  see  the  fire.  That  floor!  
Jesus-come-please-us! It was as big as a
ballroom  floor  in  an  MGM  musical  extravaganza.  Mike  looked  at  him  
from  the  other  side,  a
shape almost lost in the fog.

You coming, ale Mikey?
Right here with you, Richie.

You still want to say all right?

Yeah . . . but hold my hand . . . can you catch hold?
I think so.

Richie  held  his  hand  out,  and  although  Mike  was  on  the  far  side  of 
 this  enormous  room  he

felt  those  strong  brown  fingers  close  over  his  wrist.  Oh  and  that  
was  good,  that  was  a  good
touch —  good  to  find  desire  in  comfort,  to  find  comfort  in  desire,  
to  find  substance  in  smoke
and smoke in substance —

He  tilted  his  head  back  and  looked  at  the  smoke-hole, so white and 
wee. It was farther up
now. Miles up. Venusian skylight.

It  was  happening.  He  began  to  float.  Come  on  then,  he  thought,  and  
began  to  rise  faster
through the smoke, the fog, the mist, whatever it was.


5

They weren't inside anymore.

The  two  of  them  were  standing  together  in  the  middle  of  the  
Barrens,  and  it  was  nearly
dusk.

It  was  the  Barrens,  he  knew  that,  but  everything  was  different.  The  
foliage  was  lusher,
deeper,  savagely  fragrant.  There  were  plants  he  had  never  seen  
before,  and  Richie  realized
some  of  the  things  he  had  first  taken  for  trees  were  really  giant 
ferns. There was the sound of
running  water,  but  it  was  much  louder  than  it  should  have  been  — 
this water sounded not like
the  leisurely  flow  of  the  Kenduskeag  Stream  but  more  the  way  he  
imagined  the  Colorado
River would sound as it cut its way through the Grand Canyon.

It was hot, too. Not that it didn't get hot in Maine during the summer, and 
humid enough so
that sometimes you felt sticky just lying in your bed at night, but this was 
more heat and more
humidity  than  he  had  ever  felt  in  his  whole  life.  A  low  mist,  
smoky  and  thick,  lay  in  the
hollows  of  the  land  and  crept  around  the  boys'  legs.  It  had  a  thin 
 acrid  smell  like  burning
green wood.

He  and  Mike  began  to  move  toward  the  sound  of  the  running  water  
without  speaking,
pushing  their  way  through  the  strange  foliage.  Thick  ropy  lianas  lay  
between  some  of  the
trees  like  spidery  hammocks,  and  once  Richie  heard  something  go  
crashing  off  through  the
underbrush. It sounded bigger than a deer.

He  stopped  long  enough  to  look  around,  turning  in  a circle,  studying  
the  horizon.  He  knew
where  the  Standpipe's  thick  white  cylinder  should  have  been,  but  it  
wasn't  there.  Neither  was
the  railroad  trestle  going  over  to  the  trainyards  at  the  end  of  
Neibolt  Street  or  the  Old  Cape
housing   development  —  low  bluffs  and  red  sandstone  outcroppings  of  
rock  bulged  out  of
thick stands of giant fern and pine trees where the Old Cape should have been.

There  was  a  flapping  noise  overhead.  The  boys  ducked  as  a  squadron  
of  bats  flapped  by.
They  were  the  biggest  bats  Richie had ever seen, and for a moment he was 
more terrified than
he  had  been  even  when  Bill  was  trying  to  get  Silver  rolling  and  he 
 had  heard  the  werewolf
closing  in  on  them  from  behind.  The  stillness  and  the  alienness  of  
this  land  were  both  terrible,
but its awful familiarity was somehow worse.

No need to be scared,  he told himself.  Remember that this is just a dream, or 
a vision, or
whatever you want to call it. Me and ole Mikey are really back in the 
clubhouse, goofed up
on  smoke.  Pretty  soon  Big  Bill  is  gonna  get  noivous  from  the  
soivice  because  we're  not
answering anymore, and he and Ben will come down and haul us out. It's just 
like Conway
Twitty says — only make-believe.

But  he  could  see  how  one  of  the  bats'  wings  was  so  ragged  the  
hazy  sun  shone through it,
and  when  they  passed  beneath  one  of  the  giant  ferns  he  could  see  a 
 fat  yellow  caterpillar
trundling  across  a  wide  green  frond,  leaving  its  shadow  behind  it.  
There  were  tiny  black  mites
jumping  and  sizzling  on  the  caterpillar's  body.  If  this  was  a  dream, 
 it  was  the  clearest  one  he
had ever had.

They  went  on  toward  the  sound  of  the  water,  and  in  the  thick  
knee-high groundmist, Richie
was  unable  to  tell  if  his  feet  were  touching  the  ground  or  not.  
They  came  to  a  place  where
both   the   mist   and   the   ground   stopped.   Richie   looked,   
unbelieving.   This   was   not   the
Kenduskeag  —  and  yet  it  was.  The  stream  boiled  and  roiled  through  a 
 narrow  watercourse
cut    through  that  same  crumbly  rock   —  looking  across  to  the  far  
side,  he  could  see  ages  cut
into those  stacked  layers  of  stone,  red  and  then  orange  and  then  red 
 again.  You  couldn't  walk
across  this  stream  on  stepping-stones;  you'd  need  a  rope  bridge,  and  
if  you  fell  in  you  would
be  swept  away  at  once.  The  sound  of  the  water  was  the  sound  of  
bitter  foolish  anger, and as
Richie  watched,  slack-jawed,  he  saw  a  pinkish-silver  fish  jump  in  an  
impossibly  high  arc,


snapping  at  the  bugs  that  made  shifting  clouds  just  above  the  
surface  of  the  water.  It  splashed
down  again,  giving  Richie  just  time  enough  to  register  its  presence,  
and  to  realize  he  had
never seen a fish exactly like that in his whole life, not even in a book.

Birds  flocked  across  the  sky,  squalling  harshly.  Not  a  dozen  or  two  
dozen;  for  a  moment
the  sky  was  so  dark  with  birds  that  they  blotted  out  the  sun. 
Something else  crashed  through
the  bushes,  and  then  more  things.  Richie  wheeled,  his  heart  thudding  
painfully  in  his  chest,
and saw something that looked like an antelope flash by, heading southeast.

Something's going to happen. And they know it .

The  birds  passed,  presumably  alighting  somewhere   en  masse  farther 
south. Another animal
crashed  by  them  .  .  .  and  another.  Then  there  was  silence  except  
for  the  steady  rumble  of  the
Kenduskeag.  The  silence  had  a  waiting  quality  about  it,  a  pregnant  
quality  Richie  didn't  like.
He           felt  the  hairs  shifting  and  trying  to  stand  up  on  the  
back  of  his  neck  and  he  groped  for
Mike's hand again.

Do  you  know  where  we  are?   he shouted at Mike.  You  got  the  word?  
Jesus,  yes!  Mike
shouted back. I got it! This is ago, Richie! Ago!

Richie  nodded.  Ago,  as  in  once  upon  a  time,  long  long  ago,  when  we 
 all  lived  in  the  forest
and  nobody  lived  anywhere  else.  They  were  in  the  Barrens  as  they  
had  been  God  knew  how
many  thousands  of  years  ago.  They  were  in  some  unimaginable  past  
before  the  ice  age,  when
New England had been as tropical as South America was today . . . if there 
still  was  a today.
He  looked  around  again,  nervously,  almost  expecting  to  see  a  
brontosaurus  raise  its  cranelike
neck  against  the  sky  and  stare  down  at  them,  its  mouth  full  of  mud 
 and  dripping  uprooted
plants, or a saber-toothed tiger come stalking out of the undergrowth.

But  there  was  only  that  silence,  as  in  the  five  or  ten  minutes  
before  a  vicious  thundersquall
strikes,  when  the  purple  heads  stack up and up in the sky overhead and the 
light turns a queer,
bruised   purple-yellow  and  the  wind  dies  completely  and  you  can  smell 
 a  thick  aroma  like
overcharged car batteries in the air.

We're in the ago, a million years back, maybe, or ten million, or eighty 
million, but here we
are and something's going to happen, I don't know what but something and I'm 
scared I want
it  to  end  I  want  to  be  back  and  Bill  please  Bill  please  pull  us  
out  it's  like  we  fell  into  the
picture some picture please please help —

Mike's  hand  tightened  on  his  and  he  realized  that  now  the  silence  
had  been  broken.  There
was  a  steady  low  vibration  —  he  could  feel  it  more  than  hear  it,  
working  against  the  tight
flesh  of  his  eardrums,  buzzing  the  tiny  bones  that  conducted  the  
sound.  It  grew  steadily.  It
had no tone; it simply was:

(the word in the beginning was the word the world the)

a  tuneless,  soulless  sound.  He  groped  for  the  tree  they  stood  near  
and  as  his  hand  touched
it,  cupped  the  curve  of  the  bole,  he  could  feel  the  vibration  
caught  inside.  At  the  same
moment  he  realized  he  could  feel  it  in  his  feet,  a  steady  tingling  
that  went  up  his  ankles  and
calves to his knees, turning his tendons into tuning forks.

It grew. And grew.

It  was  coming  out  of  the  sky.  Not  wanting  to  but  unable  to  help  
himself,  Richie  turned  his
face  up.  The  sun  was  a  molten  coin  burning  a  circle  in  the  
low-hanging  overcast,  surrounded
by  a  fairy-ring  of  moisture.  Below  it,  the  verdant  green  slash  that  
was  the  Barrens  lay  utterly
still. Richie  thought  he  understood  what  this  vision  was:  they  were  
about  to  see  the  coming  of
It.

The  vibration  took  on  a  voice  —  a  rumbling  roar  that  built  to  a  
shattering  crescendo  of
sound.  He  clapped  his  hands  to  his  ears  and  screamed  and  could  not  
hear  himself scream.
Beside  him,  Mike  Hanlon  was  doing  the  same,  and  Richie  saw  that  
Mike's  nose  was  bleeding
a little.


The  clouds  in  the  west  lit  with  a  bloom  of  red  fire.  It  traced  
its  way  toward  them,  widening
from  an  artery  to  a  stream  to  a  river  of  ominous  color;  and  then,  
as  a  burning,  falling  object
broke through the cloud cover, the wind came. It was hot and searing, smoky and 
suffocating.
The  thing  in  the  sky  was  gigantic,  a  flaming  match-head  that  was  
nearly  too  bright  to  look  at.
Arcs  of  electricity  bolted  from  it,  blue  bullwhips  that  flashed  out  
from  it  and  left  thunder  in
their wake.

A spaceship!  Richie screamed, falling to his knees and covering his eyes.  Oh 
my God it's a
spaceship!  But he believed  —  and  would  tell  the  others  later,  as  best 
 he  could — that it was
not  a  spaceship,  although  it  might  have  come  through  space  to  get  
here.  Whatever  came
down  on  that  long-ago  day  had  come  from  a  place  much  farther  away  
than  another  star  or
another  galaxy,  and  if  spaceship  was  the  first  word  to  come  into  
his  mind,  perhaps  that  was
only because his mind had no other way of grasping what his eyes were seeing.

There  was  an  explosion  then  —  a  roar  of  sound  followed  by  a  
rolling  concussion  that
knocked  them  both  down.  This  time  it  was  Mike  who  groped  for  
Richie's  hand.  There  was
another  explosion.  Richie  opened  his  eyes  and  saw  a  glare  of  fire  
and  a  pillar  of  smoke  rising
into the sky.

It!  he  screamed  at  Mike,  in  an  ecstasy  of  terror  now  —  never  in  
his  life,  before  or  after,
would he feel any emotion so deeply, be so overwhelmed by feeling. It! It! It!

Mike  dragged  him  to  his  feet  and  they  ran  along  the  high  bank  of  
the  young  Kenduskeag,

never  noticing  how  close  they  were  to  the  drop.  Once  Mike  stumbled  
and  went  skidding  to
his  knees.  Then  it  was  Ric hie's  turn  to  go  down,  barking  his  shin  
and  tearing  his  pants.  The
wind had come up and it was pushing the smell of the burning forest toward 
them. The smoke
grew  thicker,  and  Richie  became  dimly  aware  that  he  and  Mike  were  
not  running  alone.  The
animals   were  on  the  move  again,  fleeing  from  the  smoke,  the  fire,  
the  death  in  the  fire.
Running from It, perhaps. The new arrival in their world.

Richie  began  to  cough.  He  could  hear  Mike  beside  him,  also  coughing. 
 The  smoke  was
thicker,  washing  out  the  greens  and  grays  and  reds  of  the  day.  Mike 
 fell  again  and  Richie  lost
his hand. He groped for it and could not find it.

Mike! He screamed, panicked, coughing. Mike, where are you? Mike! MIKE!

But Mike was gone; Mike was nowhere.
richie! richie! richie!

(!!WHACKO!!)

'richie! richie! richie, are you

6

all right?'

His  eyes  fluttered  open  and  he  saw  Beverly  kneeling  beside  him,  
wiping  his  mouth  with  a
handkerchief.  The  others  —   Bill,  Eddie,  Stan,  and  Ben  —  stood  
behind  her,  their  faces
solemn  and  scared.  The  side  of  Richie's  face  hurt  like  hell.  He  
tried  to  speak  to  Beverly  and
could  only  croak.  He  tried  to  clear  his  throat  and  almost  vomited.  
His  throat  and  lungs  felt  as
if they had somehow been lined with smoke.

At last he managed, 'Did you slap me, Beverly?'

|It was all I could think of to do,' she said.
'Whacko,' Richie muttered.

'I didn't think you were going to be all right, is all,' Bev said, and suddenly 
burst into tears.

Richie patted her clumsily on the shoulder  and Bill put a hand on the back of 
her neck. She
reached around at once, took it, squeezed it.


Richie  managed  to  sit  up.  The  world  began  to  swim  in  waves.  When  
it  steadied  down  he
saw Mike leaning against a tree nearby, his face dazed and ashy-pale.

'Did I puke?' Richie asked Bev.
She nodded, still crying.

In a croaking, stumbling Irish Cop's Voice, he asked, 'Get any on ye, darlin?'

Bev laughed through her tears and shook her head. 'I turned you on your side. I 
was afraid .

. . a-a-afraid you'd ch-ch-choke on it.' She began to cry hard again.

'Nuh-Nuh-No  f-fair,'  Bill  said,  still  holding  her  hand.  'I-I-I'm  the  
one  who  stuh-huh-hutters
a-around h-here.'

'Not  bad,  Big  Bill,'  Richie  said.  He  tried  to  get  to  his  feet  and  
sat  down  aga in heavily. The
world  was  still  swimming.  He  began  to  cough  and  turned  his  head  
away,  aware  that  he  was
going  to  retch  again  only  a  moment  before  it  happened.  He  threw  up  
a  mess  of  green  foam
and  thick  saliva  that  mostly  came  out  in  ropes.  He  closed  his  eyes 
tight and croaked, 'Anyone
want a snack?'

'Oh shit!' Ben cried, disgusted and laughing at the same time.

'Looks  more  like  puke  to  me,'  Richie  said,  although,  in  truth,  his  
eyes  were  still  tightly
shut.  'The  shit  usually  comes  out  the  other  end,  at least for me. I 
dunno about you, Haystack.'
When  he  opened  his  eyes  at  last,  he  saw  the  clubhouse  about  twenty  
yards  away.  Both  the
window and the big trapdoor were thrown open. Smoke, thinning now, puffed from 
both.

This  time  Richie  was  able  to  get  to  his  feet.  For  a  moment  he  was 
 quite  sure  he  was  going
to  retch  again,  or  faint,  or  both.  'Whacko,'  he  murmured,  watching  
the  world  waver  and  warp
in  front  of  his  eyes.  When  the  feeling  passed,  he  made  his  way  
over  to  where  Mike  was.
Mike's  eyes  were  still  weasel-red,  and  from  the  dampness  on  his  
pants  cuffs,  Richie  thought
that maybe ole Mikey had taken a ride on the stomach-elevator, too.

'For  a  white  boy  you  did  pretty  good,'  Mike  croaked,  and  punched  
Richie  weakly  on  the
shoulder.

Richie was at a loss for words — a condition of exquisite rarity.
Bill came over. The others came with him.

'You pulled us out?' Richie asked.

'M-Me  and  Buh-Ben.  Y-You  were  scuh-scuh-rheaming.  B-Both  of  y-y-you.  
B-B-But  — '
He looked over at Ben.

Ben  said,  'It  must  have  been  the  smoke,  Bill.'  But  there  was  no  
conviction  in  the  big  boy's
voice at all.

Flatly, Richie said: 'You mean what I think you mean?'

Bill shrugged. 'W-W-What's th-that, Rih-Richie?'

Mike  answered.  'We  weren't  there  at  first, were we? You went down because 
you heard us
screaming, but at first we weren't there.'

'It  was  really  smoky,'  Ben  said.  'Hearing  you  both  screaming  that  
way,  that  was  scary
enough. But the screaming . . . it sounded . . . well . . . '

'It  s-s-sounded  very  f-f-f-far  a-away,'  Bill  said.  Stuttering  badly,  
he  told  them  that  when  he
and  Ben  had  gone  down,  they  hadn't  been  able  to  see  either  Richie  
or  Mike.  They  had  gone
plunging  around  in  the  smoky  clubhouse,  panicked,  scared  that  if  they 
 didn't  act  quickly  the
two  boys  might  die  of  smoke  poisoning.  At  last  Bill  had  gripped  a  
hand  —  Richie's. He had
given 'a  huh-huh-hell  of  a  yuh-yank' and Richie had come flying out of the 
gloom, only about
one-quarter  conscious.  When  Bill  turned  around  he  had  seen  Ben  with  
Mike  in  a  bear-hug,
both        of them coughing. Ben had thrown Mike up and out through the 
trapdoor.

Ben listened to all this, nodding.

'I  kept  grabbing,  you  know?  Really  not  doing  anything  except  jabbing  
my  hand  out  like  I
wanted  to  shake  hands. You grabbed it, Mike. Damn good thing you grabbed it 
when you did.
I think you were just about gone.'


'You  guys  make  the  clubhouse  sound  a  lot  bigger  than  it  is,'  Richie 
 said.  'Talking  about
stumbling around in it and all. It's only five feet on every side.'

There   was   a   moment's   silence   while   they   all   looked   at   Bill, 
  who   stood   in   frowning
concentration.

'It w-w-was b-bigger,' he said at last. 'W-W-Wasn't it, Ben?'
Ben shrugged. 'It sure seemed like it. Unless it was the smoke.'

'It  wasn't  the  smoke,'  Richie  said.  'Just  before  it  happened   —  
before  we  went  out  —  I
remember thinking it was at least as big as a ballroom in a movie. Like one of 
those musicals.
Seven  Brides  for  Seven  Brothers,   something  like  that.  I  could  barely 
 see  Mike  against the
other wall.'. .

'Before you went out?' Beverly asked.
'Well . . . what I mean . . . like . . . '

She  grabbed  Richie's  arm.  'It  happened,  didn't  it?  It  really  
happened!  You  had  a  vision,  just
like in Ben's book!' Her face was glowing. 'It really happened?

Richie  looked  down  at  himself,  and  then  at  Mike.  One  of  the  knees  
of  Mike's  corduroy
pants was out, and both the knees of his own jeans were torn. He could look 
through the holes
and see bleeding scrapes on both his knees.

'If  it  was  a  vision,  I  never  want  to  have  another  one,'  he  said.  
'I  don't  know  about  de
Kingfish over there, but when I went down there, I didn't have any holes in my 
pants. They're
practically new, for gosh sakes. My mom's gonna give me hell.'

'What happened?' Ben and Eddie asked together.

Richie and Mike exchanged a glance and then Richie said, 'Bevvie, you got a 
smoke?'

She  had  two,  wrapped  in  a  piece  of  tissue.  Richie  put  one  of  them  
in  his  mouth  and  when
she  lit  it  the  first  drag  made  him  cough  so badly that he handed it 
back to her. 'Can't,' he said.
'Sorry.'

'It was the past,' Mike said.

'Shit on that,' Richie said. 'It wasn't just the past. It was ago.'

'Yeah,  right.  We  were  in  the  Barrens,  but  the  Kenduskeag  was  going  
a  mile  a  minute. It
was  deep.  It  was  fuckin  wild.  Sorry, Bevvie, but it  was.  And  there  
were  fish  in  it.  Salmon,  I
think.'

'M-My  d-d-dad  s-says  th-there  haven't  been  a-a-any fuh-fish  in  the  
K-Kendusk-k-keag for
a l-l-long tuh-hime. B-Because of the suh-sewage.'

'This  was  a  long  time,  all  right,'  Richie  said.  He  looked  around  at 
 them  uncertainly.  'I  think
it was a million years ago, at least.'

A thunderstruck silence greeted this. Beverly broke it at last. 'But what 
happened?'

Richie  felt  the  words  in  his   throat,  but  he  had  to  struggle  to  
bring  them  out.  It  felt  almost
like vomiting again. 'We saw It come,' he said at last. 'I think that was it.'

'Christ,' Stan muttered. 'Oh Christ.'

There was a sharp hiss-gasp as Eddie used his aspirator.

'It  came  out  of  the  sky,'  Mike  said.  'I  never  want  to  see  anything 
 like  that  again  in  my
whole  life.  It  was  burning  so  hot  you  couldn't  really  look  at  it.  
And  it  was  thowin  off
electricity  and  makin  thunder.  The  noise  .  .  .  '  He  shook  his  head 
 and  looked  at  Ric hie. 'It
sounded like the end of the world. And when it hit, it started a forest fire. 
That was at the end
of it.'

'Was it a spaceship?' Ben asked.
'Yes,' Richie said. 'No,' Mike said.
They looked at each other.

'Well,  I  guess  it  was,'  Mike  said,  and  at  the  same  time  Richie  
said:  'No,  it  really  wasn't  a

spaceship, you know, but — '

They paused again while the others looked at them, perplexed.


'You tell,' Richie said to Mike. 'We mean the same thing, I think, but they're 
not getting it.'

Mike  coughed  into  his  fist  and  then  looked  up  at  the  others,  almost 
 apologetically. 'I don't
know just how to tell you,' he said.

'T-T-Try,' Bill said urgently.

'It  came  out  of  the  sky,'  Mike  repeated,  'but  it  wasn't  a  
spaceship,  exactly.  It  wasn't  a
meteor,  either.  It  was  more  like  .  .  .  well  .  .  .  like  the  Ark  
of  the  Covenant,  in  the  Bible,  that
was supposed to have the Spirit of God inside of it . . . except this wasn't 
God. Just feeling It,
watching It come, you knew It meant bad, that It was bad.'

He looked at them.

Richie nodded. 'It came from . . . outside. I got that feeling. From  outside.'

'Outside where, Richie?' Eddie asked.

'Outside  everything,'  Richie  said.  'And  when  It  came  down  .  .  .  It  
made  the  biggest  damn
hole  you  ever  saw  in  your  life.  It  turned  this  big  hill  into  a  
doughnut,  just  about.  It  landed
right where the downtown part of Derry is now.'

He looked at them. 'Do you get it?'

Beverly dropped the cigarette half-smoked and crushed it out under one shoe.

Mike  said.  'It's  always  been  here,  since  the  beginning  of  time  .  .  
.  since  before  there  were
men  anywhere,  unless  maybe  there  were  just  a  few  of  them  in  Africa  
somewhere,  swinging
through  the  trees  or  living  in  caves.  The  crater's  gone  now,  and  ht 
e  ice  age  probably  scraped
the  valley  deeper  and  changed  some  stuff  around  and  filled  the  
crater  in  .  .  .  but  It  was  here
then, sleeping, maybe, waiting for the ice to melt, waiting for the people to 
come.'

That's  why  It  uses  the  sewers  and  the  drains ,' Richie put in. They 
must be regular freeways

for It.'

'You didn't see what It looked like?' Stan Uris asked abruptly and a little 
hoarsely.
They shook their heads.

'Can we beat It?' Eddie said in the silence. 'A thing like that?' No one 
answered.


C H A P T E R  1 6

Eddie's Bad Break

1

By   the   time   Richie   finishes,   they're   all   nodding.   Eddie   is   
nodding   along   with   them,
remembering along with them, when the pain suddenly races up his left arm. 
Races up? No.
Rips through: it feels as if someone is trying to sharpen a rusty saw on the 
bone in there. He
grimaces and reaches into the pocket of his sport jacket, sorts through a 
number of bottles by
feel,  and  takes  out  the  Excedrin.  He  swallows  two  with  a  gulp  of  
gin-and-prune juice. The
arm has been paining him off and on all day. At first he dismissed it as the 
twinges of bursitis
he  sometimes  gets  when  the  weather  is  damp.  But  halfway  through  
Richie's  story,  a  new
memory clicks into place for him and he understands the pain. This isn't Memory 
Lane we're
wandering   down   anymore,   he   thinks;   it's   getting   more   and   more 
  like   the   Long   Island
Expressway.

Five years ago, during a routine check-up (Eddie has a routine check -up every 
six weeks),
the doctor said matter-of-factly: 'There's an old break here, Ed . . . Did you 
fall out of a tree
when you were a kid?'

'Something  like  that,'  Eddie  agreed,  not  bothering  to  tell  Dr  Robbins 
 that  his  mother
undoubtedly would have fallen down dead of a brain hemorrhage if she had seen 
or heard of
her  Eddie  climbing  trees.  The  truth  was,  he  hadn't  been  able  to  
remember  exactly  how  he
broke the arm. It didn't seem important (although, Eddie thinks now, that lack 
of interest was
in itself very odd  — he is, after all, a man who attaches importance to a 
sneeze or a  slight
change in the color of his stools). But it was an old break, a minor 
irritation, something that
happened a long time ago in a boyhood he could barely remember and didn't care 
to recall.
It pained him a little when he had to drive long hours on rainy days. A couple 
of aspirin took
care of it nicely. No big deal.

But now it is not just a minor irritation; it is some madman sharpening that 
rusty saw,
playing  bone-tunes, and he remembers that was how it felt in the hospital, 
especially late at
night, in  the  first  three  or  four  days  after  it  happened.  Lying  
there  in  bed,  sweating  in  the
summer heat, waiting for the nurse to bring him a pill, tears running silently 
down his cheeks
into the bowls of his ears, thinking It's like some kook's sharpening a saw in 
there.

If  this  is  Memory  Lane, Eddie thinks,  I'd  trade  it  for  one  great  big 
 brain  enema:  a  mental
high colonic.

Unaware he is going to speak, he says: 'It was Henry Bowers who broke my arm. 
Do you
remember that?'

Mike  nods.  'That  was  just before Patrick Hockstetter disappeared. I don't 
remember the
date.'

'I do,' Eddie says flatly. 'It was the 20th of July. The Hockstetter kid was 
reported missing
on . . . what? . . . the 23rd?'

'Twenty-second,' Beverly Rogan says, although she doesn't tell them why she is 
so sure of

the date: it is because she saw It take Hockstetter. Nor does she tell them 
that she believed
then and believes now that Patrick Hockstetter was crazy, perhaps even crazier 
than Henry
Bowers. She will tell them, but this is Eddie's turn. She will speak next, and 
then she supposes
that Ben will narrate the climax of that July's events . . . the silver bullet 
they had never quite


dared  to  make.  A  nightmare  agenda  if  ever  there  was  one,  she  thinks 
 —  but  that  crazy
exhilaration persists. When did she last feel this young? She can hardly sit 
still.

'The 20th of July,' Eddie muses, rolling his aspirator along the table from one 
hand to the
other. 'Three or four days after the smoke-hole thing. I spent the rest of the 
summer in a cast,
remember?'

Richie slaps his forehead in a gesture they all remember from the old days and 
Bill thinks,
with  a  mixture  of  amusement  and  unease,  that  for  a  moment  there  
Richie  looked  just  like
Beaver Cleaver. 'Sure, of course! You were in a cast when we went to the house 
on Neibolt
Street, weren't you? And later . . .  in the dark . . . ' But now Richie shakes 
his head a little,
puzzled.

'What, R-Richie?' Bill asks.

'Can't remember that part yet,' Richie admits. 'Can you?' Bill shakes his head 
slowly.
'Hockstetter was with them that day,' Eddie says. 'It was the last time I ever 
saw him alive.

Maybe  he  was  a  replacement  for  Peter  Gordon.  I  guess  Bowers  didn't  
want  Peter  around

anymore after he ran the day of the rockfight.'

'They all died, didn't they?' Beverly asks quietly. 'After Jimmy Cullum, the 
only ones who
died were Henry Bowers's friends . . . or his ex-friends.'

'All  but  Bowers,'  Mike  agrees,  glancing  toward  the  balloons  tethered  
to  the  microfilm
recorder. 'And he's in Juniper Hill. A private insane asylum in Augusta.'

Bill says, 'W-W-What about when they broke your arm, E-E-Eddie?'

'Your stutter's getting worse, Big Bill,' Eddie says solemnly, and finishes his 
drink in one
gulp.

'Never mind that,' Bill says. 'T-Tell us.'

'Tell us,' Beverly repeats, and puts her hand lightly on his arm. The pain 
flares there again.
'All right,' Eddie says. He pours himself a fresh drink, studies it, and says, 
'It was a couple

of days after I came home from the hospital that you guys came over to the 
house and showed

me those silver ball-bearings. You remember, Bill?'
Bill nods.

Eddie looks at Beverly. 'Bill asked you if you'd shoot them, if it came to that 
. . . because

you had the best eye. I think you said you wouldn't . . . that you'd be too 
afraid. And you told
us something else, but I just can't remember what it was. It's like — ' Eddie 
sticks his tongue
out and plucks the end of it, as if something were stuck there. Richie and Ben 
both grin. 'Was
it something about Hockstetter?'

'Yes,' Beverly says. 'I'll tell when you're done. Go ahead.'

'It was after that, after all you guys left, that my mother came in and we had 
a big fight.
She didn't want me to hang around with any of you guys again. And she might 
have gotten me
to agree — she had a way, a way of working on a guy, you know . . . '

Bill nods again. He remembers Mrs Kaspbrak, a huge woman with a strange 
schizophrenic
face,  a  face  capable  of  looking  stony  and  furious  and  miserable  and  
frightened all at the
same time.

'Yeah, she might have gotten me to agree,' Eddie says. 'But something else 
happened the
same day Bowers broke my arm. Something that really shook me up.'

He utters a little laugh, thinking:  It shook me up, all right . . . Is that 
all you can say? What
good's talking when you can never tell people how you really feel? In a book or 
a movie what
I  found  out  that  day  before  Bowers  broke  my  arm  would  have  changed  
my  life  forever  and
nothing  would  have  happened  the  way  it  did  .  . .  in  a  book  or  a  
movie  it  would  have  set  me
free.  In  a  book  or  a  movie  I  wouldn't  have  a  whole  suitcase  full  
of  pills  back  in  my  room  at
the  Town  House,  I  wouldn't  be  married  to  Myra,  I  wouldn't  have  this 
 stupid  fucking  aspirator
here right now. In a book or a movie. Because —


Suddenly, as they all watch, Eddie's aspirator rolls across the table by 
itself. As it rolls it
makes a dry rattling sound, a little like maracas, a little like bones . . . a 
little like laughter.
As  it  reaches  the  far  side,  between Richie and Ben, it flips itself up 
into the air and falls on
the floor. Richie makes a startled half-grab and Bill cries sharply, 'Don't t 
-t-touch it!'

'The balloons!' Ben yells, and they all turn.

Both  balloons  tethered  to  the  microfilm  recorder now read  ASTHMA  
MEDICINE  GIVES YOU
CANCER! Below the slogan are grinning skulls.

They explode with twin bangs.

Eddie  looks  at  this,  mouth  dry,  the  familiar  sensation  of  suffocation 
 starting  to  tighten
down in his chest like locking bolts.

Bill looks back at him. 'Who t-told you and w-w-what did they tell you?'

Eddie licks his lips, wanting to go after his aspirator, not quite daring to. 
Who knew what
might be in it now?

He thinks about that day, the 20th, about how it was hot, about how his mother 
gave him a

check, all filled out except for the amount, and a dollar in cash for himself — 
his allowance.
'Mr Keene,' he says, and his voice sounds distant to his own ears, without 
power. 'It was

Mr Keene.'

'Not  exactly  the  nicest  man  in  Derry,'  Mike  says,  but  Eddie,  lost  
in  his  thoughts,  barely
hears him.

Yes, it was hot that day but cool inside the Center Street Drug, the wooden 
fans turning
leisurely below the pressed-tin ceiling, and there was that comforting smell of 
mixed powders
and nostrums. This was the place where they sold health  — that was his 
mother's unstated
but clearly communicated conviction, and with his body-clock set at half-past 
eleven, Eddie
had no suspicion that his mother might be wrong about that, or anything else.

Well, Mr Keene sure put an end to that, he thinks now with a kind of sweet 
anger.

He remembers standing at the comic rack for awhile, spinning it idly to see if 
there were
any new Batmans or Superboys, or his own favorite, Plastic Man. He had given 
his mother's
list  (she  sent  him  to  the  drugstore  as  other  boys'  mothers  might  
send  them  to  the  comer
grocery) and his mother's check to Mr Keene; he would fill the order and then 
write in the
amount  on  the  check,  giving  Eddie  the  receipt  so  she  could  deduct  
the  amount  from  her
checking balance. This was all SOP for Eddie. Three different kinds of 
prescription for his
mother, plus a bottle of Geritol because, she told him mysteriously, 'It's full 
of iron, Eddie,
and  women  need  more  iron  than  men.'  Also,  there  would  be  his  
vitamins,  a  bottle  of  Dr
Swett's Elixir for Children . . . and, of course, his asthma medicine.

It was always the same. Later he would stop in the Costello Avenue Market with 
his dollar
and get two candy-bars and a Pepsi. He would eat the candy, drink the soda, and 
jingle his
pocket-change  all  the  way  home.  But  this  day  was  different;  it  would 
 end  with  him  in  the
hospital and that was certainly different, but it started being different when 
Mr Keene called
him.  Because  instead  of  handing  him  the  big  white  bag  full  of  cures 
 and  the  receipt,
admonishing him to put the receipt in his pocket so he wouldn't lose it, Mr 
Keene looked at
him thoughtfully and said 'Come

2

back  into  the  office  for  a  minute,  Eddie.  I  want  to  talk  to  you. ' 
Eddie only looked at him for a
moment,  bunking,  a  little  scared.  The  idea  that  maybe  Mr  Keene  
thought  he  had  been
shoplifting  flashed  briefly  through  his  mind.  There  was  that  sign  by  
the  door  that  he  always
read  when  he  came  into  the  Center  Street  Drug.   It  was  written  in  
accusing  black  letters  so


large  that  he  bet  even  Richie  Tozier  could  read  it  without  his  
glasses: SHOPLIFTING  is  NOT A

'KICK' OR A 'GROOVE' OR A 'GASSER'! SHOPLIFTING is A CRIME, AND WE WILL 
PROSECUTE!

Eddie  had  never  shoplifted  anything  in  his  life,  but  that  sign  
always  made  him  feel  guilty

—  made  him  feel  as  if  Mr  Keene  knew  something  about  him  that  he  
didn't  know  about
himself.

Then Mr Keene confused him even further by saying, 'How about an ice-cream 
soda?'

'Well — '

'Oh, it's on the house. I always have one in the office around this time of 
day. Good energy,
unless you need to watch your weight, and I'd say neither of us do. My wife 
says I look like
stuffed  string.  Your  friend  there,  the  Hanscom  boy,  he's  the  one  who 
 needs  to  have  a  care
about his weight. What flavor, Eddie?'

'Well, my mother said to get home as soon as I — '

'You look like a chocolate man to me. Chocolate okay for you?' Mr Keene's eyes 
twinkled,
but  it  was  a  dry  twinkle,  like  the  sun  shining  on  mica in the 
desert. Or so Eddie, a fan of such
Western writers as Max Brand and Archie Joceylen, thought.

'Sure,'  Eddie  gave  in.  Something  about  the  way  Mr  Keene  pushed  his  
gold-rimmed glasses
up  on  his  blade  of  a  nose  made  him  edgy.  Something  about  the way Mr 
Keene seemed both
nervous  and  secretly  pleased.  He  didn't  want  to  go  into  the  office  
with  Mr  Keene.  This  wasn't
about a soda. Nope. And whatever it was about, Eddie had an idea it wasn't such 
great news.

Maybe  he's  going  to  tell  me  I  got  cancer  or  something,  Eddie thought 
wildly.  That  kid-
cancer. Leukemia. Jesus!

Oh,  don't  be  so  stupid,   he  answered  himself  back,  trying  to  sound,  
in  his  own  mind,  like

Stuttering  Bill.  Stuttering  Bill  had  replaced  Jock  Mahoney,  who  played 
 the  Range  Rider  on
TV  Saturday  mornings,  as  the  great  hero  of  Eddie's  life.  In  spite  
of  the  fact  that  he  couldn't
talk  right,  Big  Bill  always  seemed  to  be  on  top  of  things.   This  
guy's  a  pharmacist,  not  a
doctor, for cripe's sake. But Eddie was still nervous.

Mr  Keene  had  raised  the  counter-gate  and  was  beckoning  to  Eddie  with 
 one  bony  finger.

Eddie went, but reluctantly.

Ruby,  the  counter-girl,  was  sitting  by  the  cash  register  and  reading  
a  Silver Screen.  'Would
you make two ice-cream sodas, Ruby?' Mr Keene called to her. 'One chocolate, 
one coffee?'

'Sure,'  Ruby  said,  marking  her  place  in  the  magazine  with  a  tinfoil  
gum  wrapper  and

getting up.

'Bring them into the office.'
'Sure.'

'Come  on,  son.  I'm  not  going  to  bite  you.'  And  Mr  Keene  actually  
winked,  astounding
Eddie completely.

He  had  never  been  in  back  of  the  counter  before,  and  he  gazed  at  
all  the  bottles  and  pills
and  jars  with  interest.  He  would  have  lingered  if  he  had  been  on  
his  own,  examining  Mr
Keene's  mortar  and  pestle,  his  scales  and  weights,  the  fishbowls  full 
 of  capsules.  But  Mr
Keene  propelled  him  forward  into  the  office  and  closed  the  door  
firmly  behind  him.  When  it
clicked  shut  Eddie  felt  a  warning  tightness  in  his  chest  and  fought  
it.  There  would  be  a  fresh
aspirator  in  with  his  mother's things, and he could have a long satisfying 
honk on it as soon as
he   was out of here.

A bottle of licorice whips stood on the corner of Mr Keene's desk. He offered 
it to Eddie.
'No thank you,' Eddie said politely.

Mr  Keene  sat  down  in  the  swivel  chair  behind  his  desk  and  took  
one.  Then he opened his

drawer  and  took  something  out.  He  put  it  down  next  to  the  tall  
bottle  of  licorice  whips  and
Eddie  felt  real  alarm  course  through  him.  It  was  an  aspirator.  Mr  
Keene  tilted  back  in  his
swivel  chair  until  his  head  was  almost  touching  the  calendar  on  the  
wall  behind  him.  The
picture on the calendar showed more pills. It said SQUIBB. And —


—  and  for  one  nightmare  moment,  when  Mr  Keene  opened  his  mouth  to  
speak,  Eddie
remembered  what  had  happened  in  the  shoe  store  when  he  was  just  a  
little  kid,  when  his
mother  had  screamed  at  him  for  putting  his  foot  in  the  X-ray 
machine. For that one nightmare
moment  Eddie  thought  Mr  Keene  would  say:  'Eddie,  nine  out  of  ten  
doctors  agree  that  asthma
medicine  gives  you  cancer,  just  like  the  X-ray  machines  they  used  to 
 have  in  the  shoe  stores.
You've probably got it already. Just thought you ought to know.'

But what Mr Keene  did say was so peculiar that Eddie could think of no 
response at all; he
could only sit in the straight wooden chair on the other side of Mr Keene's 
desk like a nit.

'This has gone on long enough.'

Eddie opened his mouth and then closed it again.
'How old are you, Eddie? Eleven, isn't it?'

'Yes,   sir,'   Eddie   said   faintly.   His   breathing   was   indeed   
shallowing   up.   He   wasn't   yet
whistling  like  a  tea-kettle  (which  was  how  Richie  put  it:  Somebody  
turn  Eddie  off!  He's
reached  the  boil!'),  but that might happen at any time. He looked longingly 
at the aspirator on
Mr  Keene's  desk,  and  because  something  else  seemed  required,  he  said: 
 'I'll  be  twelve  in
November.'

Mr  Keene  nodded,  then  leaned  forward  like  a  TV  pharmacist  in  a  
commercial  and  clasped
his   hands   together.   His   eyeglasses   gleamed   in   the   strong   
light   thrown   by   the   overhead
fluorescent bars. 'Do you know what a placebo is, Eddie?'

Nervously,  taking  his  best  guess,  Eddie  said:  'Those  are  the  things  
on  cows  that  the  milk
comes out of, aren't they?'

Mr  Keene  laughed  and  rocked  back  in  his  chair.  'No,'  he  said,  and  
Eddie  blushed  to  the

roots  of  his  flattop  haircut.  Now  he  could  hear  the  whistle  creeping 
 into  his  breathing.  'A
placebo — '

He  was  interrupted  by  a  brisk  double  tap  at  the  door.  Without  
waiting  for  a  come-in call,
Ruby  entered  with  an  oldfashioned  ice-cream-soda  glass  in  each  hand.  
'Yours  must  be  the
chocolate,'  she  said  to  Eddie,  and  gave  him  a  grin.  He  returned  it  
as  best  he  could,  but  his
interest  in  ice-cream  sodas  was  at  its  lowest  ebb  in  his  entire  
personal  history.  He  felt  scared
in  a  way  that  was  both  vague  and  specific;  it  was  the  way  he  felt 
 scared  when  he  was  sitting
on  Dr  Handor's  examination  table  in  his  underpants,  waiting  for  the  
doctor  to  come  in  and
knowing  his  mother  was  out  in  the  waiting  room,  taking  up  most  of  
one  sofa,  a  book  (most
likely  Norman Vincent Peak's  The Power of Positive Thinking  or Dr Jarvis's 
Vermont Folk
Medicine)  held  firmly  up  to  her  eyes  like  a  hymnal.  Stripped  of  his 
 clothes  and  defenseless,
he felt caught between the two of them.

He sipped some of his soda as Ruby went out, hardly tasting it.

Mr  Keene  waited  until  the  door  was  shut  and  then  smiled  his  dry  
sun-on-mica smile again.
'Loosen up, Eddie. I'm not going to bite you, or hurt you.'

Eddie  nodded,  because  Mr  Keene  was  a  grownup  and  you  were  supposed  
to  agree with
grownups  at  all  costs  (his  mother  had  taught  him  that),  but  inside  
he  was  thinking:  Oh,  I've
heard that bullshit before.  It was about what the doctor said when he opened 
his sterilizer and
the  sharp  frightening  smell  of  alcohol  drifted  out,  stinging  his  
nostrils.  That  was  the  smell  of
shots  and  this  was  the  smell  of  bullshit  and  both  came  down  to  the 
 same  thing:  when  they
said  it  was  just  going  to  be  a  little  prick,  something  you  hardly  
felt  at  all,  that  meant  it  was
going to hurt plenty.

He tried  another  half-hearted suck on his soda straw, but it was no good; he 
needed all the
space  in  his  narrowing  throat  just  to  suck  in  air.  He  looked  at  
the  aspirator  sitting  in  the
middle of Mr Keene's blotter, wanted to ask for it, didn't quite dare. A weird 
thought occurred
to  him:  maybe  Mr  Keene  knew  he  wanted  it  but  didn't  dare  ask  for  
it,  that  maybe  Mr  Keene
was

(torturing)


teasing  him.  Except  that  was  a  really  stupid  idea,  wasn't  it?  A  
grownup  —  particularly  a
health-dispensing  grownup  —  wouldn't  tease  a  little  kid  that  way,  
would  he?  Surely  not.  It
wasn't  even  to  be  considered,  because  consideration  of  such  an  idea  
might  necessitate  a
terrifying reappraisal of the world as Eddie understood it.

But  there  it  was,  there  it  was,  so  near  and  yet  so far, like water 
just beyond the reach of a
man  who  was  dying  of  thirst  in  the  desert.  There  it  was,  standing  
on  the  desk  below  Mr
Keene's smiling mica eyes.

Eddie  wished,  more  than  anything  else,  that  he  was  down  in  the  
Barrens  with  his  friends
around  him.  The  thought  of  a  monster,  some  great  monster,  lurking  
under  the  city  where  he
had been born and where he had grown up, using the sewers and drains to creep 
from place to
place  —  that  was  a  frightening  thought,  and  the  thought  of  actually  
fighting  that  creature,  of
taking  it  on,   was  even  more  frightening  .  .  .  but  somehow  this  
was  worse.  How  could  you
fight a grownup who said it wasn't going to hurt when you knew it was? How 
could you fight
a  grownup  who  asked  you  funny  questions  and  said  obscurely  ominous  
things  like  This  has
gone  on  long  enough?  And almost idly, in a kind of side-thought, Eddie 
discovered one of his
childhood's great truths. Grownups are the real monsters,  he thought. It was 
no big deal, not a
thought  that  came  in  a  revelatory  flash  or  announced  itself  with  
trumpets  and  bells.  It  just
came   and   was   gone,   almost   buried   under   the   stronger,   
overriding   thought:   I   want   my
aspirator and I want to be out of here.

'Loosen  up,'  Mr  Keene  said  again.  'Most  of  your  trouble,  Eddie,  
comes  from  being so tight
and stiff all the time. Take your asthma, for instance. Look here.'

Mr  Keene  opened  his  desk  drawer,  fumbled  around  inside,  and  then  
brought  out  a  balloon.

Expanding  his  narrow  chest  as  much  as  possible  (his  tie  bobbed  like  
a  narrow  boat  riding a
mild   wave),   he   huffed   into   it   and   blew   it   up.   CENTER   
STREET   DRUG,   the  balloon  said.
PRESCRIPTIONS,  SUNDRIES,   OSTOMY  SUPPLIES.   Mr  Keene  pinched  the  
balloon's  rubber  neck
and  held  the  balloon  out  in  front  of  him.  'Now  pretend  for  just  a  
moment  that  this is a lung,'
he said.  'Your  lung. I should really blow up two, of course, but since I only 
had one left from
the sale we had just after Christmas — '

'Mr  Keene,  could  I  have  my  aspirator  now?'  Eddie's  head  was  starting 
 to  pound.  He  could

feel  his  windpipe  sealing  itself  up.  His  heartrate  was  up,  and  sweat 
 stood  out  on  his  forehead.
His  chocolate  ice-cream  soda  stood  on  the  corner  of  Mr  Keene's  desk, 
 the  cherry  on  top
sinking slowly into a goo of whipped cream.

'In  a  minute,'  Mr  Keene  said.  'Pay  attention, Eddie. I want to help you. 
It's time somebody
did.  If  Russ  Handor  isn't  man  enough  to  do  it,  I'll  have  to.  Your  
lung  is  like  this  balloon,
except  it's  surrounded  by  a  blanket  of  muscle;  these  muscles  are  
like  the  arms  of  a  man
operating  a  bellows,  you  understand?  In  a  healthy  person,  those  
muscles  help  the  lungs  to
expand  and  contract  easily.  But  if  the  owner  of  those  healthy  lungs  
is  always  getting  stiff  and
tight, the muscles begin to work against the lungs rather than with them. 
Look!'

Mr  Keene  wrapped  a  bunched,  bony,  liverspotted  hand  around  the  
balloon  and  squeezed.
The  balloon  bulged  over  and  under  his  fist  and  Eddie  winced,  trying  
to  get  ready  for  the  pop.
Simultaneously  he  felt  his  breathing  stop  altogether.  He  leaned  over  
the  desk  and grabbed for
the       aspirator  on  the  blotter.  His  shoulder  struck  the  heavy  
ice-cream-soda glass. It toppled off
the desk and shattered on the floor like a bomb.

Eddie  heard  that  only  dimly.  He  was  clawing  the  top  off  the  
aspirator,  slamming  the  nozzle
into  his  mouth,  triggering  it  off.  He  took  a  tearing  heaving  breath, 
 his  thoughts  a  ratrun  of
panic  as  they  always  were  at  moments  like  this:  Please  Mommy  I'm  
suffocating  I  can't
BREATHE oh my dear God oh dear Jesus meekandmild I can't BREATHE phase I don't 
want
to       die don't want to die oh please —

Then  the  fog  from  the  aspirator  condensed  on  the  swollen  walls  of  
his  throat  and  he  could

breathe again.


'I'm sorry,' he said, nearly crying. 'I'm sorry about the glass . . . I'll 
clean it up and pay for  it

. . . just please don't tell my mother, okay? I'm sorry, Mr Keene, but I 
couldn't breathe —
There was that double tap at the door again and Ruby poked her head in. 'Is 
everything — '
'Everything's fine,' Mr Keene said sharply. 'Leave us.'

'Well I'm saw-ry!' Ruby said. She rolled her eyes and closed the door.

Eddie's  breath  was  starting  to  whistle  in  his  throat  again.  He  took  
another  pull  at  the
aspirator  and  then  began  his  fumbling  apology  once  more.  He  ceased  
only  when  he  saw  that
Mr  Keene was smiling at him  —  that  peculiar  dry  smile.  Mr  Keene's  
hands  were  laced  over
his middle. The balloon lay on his desk. A thought came to Eddie; he tried to 
hold it back and
couldn't.  Mr  Keene  looked  as  if  Eddie's  asthma  attack  had  tasted  
better  to  him than  his  half-
finished coffee soda.

'Don't  be  concerned,'  he  said.  'Ruby  will  clean  up  the  mess  later,  
and  if  you  want  to  know
the  truth,  I'm  rather  glad  you  broke  the  glass.  Because  I  promise  
not  to  tell  your  mother  that
you broke it if you promise not to tell her we had this little talk.'

'Oh, I promise that,' Eddie said eagerly.

'Good,'  Mr  Keene  said.  'We  have  an  understanding.  And  you  feel  much  
better  now,  don't
you?'

Eddie nodded.
'Why?'

'Why? Well . . . because I had my medicine.' He looked at Mr Keene the way he 
looked at
Mrs Casey in school when he had given an answer he wasn't quite sure of.

'But you  didn't  have any medicine,' Mr Keene said. 'You had a  placebo. A 
placebo, Eddie,

is  something  that  looks  like medicine and  tastes  like  medicine  but  
isn't  medicine.  A  placebo
isn't  medicine  because  it  has  no  active  ingredients.  Or,  if  it  is  
medicine,  it's  medicine  of  a  very
special   sort.   Head-medicine.'   Mr   Keene   smiled.   'Do   you   
understand   that,   Eddie?  Head-
medicine.'

Eddie  understood,  all  right;  Mr  Keene  was  telling  him  he  was  crazy.  
But  through  numb  lips
he said, 'No, I don't get you.'

'Let  me  tell  you  a  little  story,'  Mr  Keene  said.  'In  1954,  a  
series  of  medical  tests  on  ulcer

patients  was  run  at  DePaul  University.  One   hundred  ulcer  patients  
were  given  pills.  They
were  all  told  the  pills  would  help  their  ulcers,  but  fifty  of  the  
patients  really  got  placebos  .  .  .
They  were,  in  fact,  M&M's  given  a  uniform  pink  coating.'  Mr  Keene  
uttered  a  strange  shrill
giggle  —  that  of  a  man  describing  a  prank  rather  than  an  
experiment.  'Of  those  one  hundred
patients,   ninety-three   said   they   felt   a   definite   improvement,   
and   eighty-one   showed   an
improvement.  So  what  do  you  think?  What  conclusion  do  you  draw  from  
such  an  experiment,
Eddie?'

'I don't know,' Eddie said faintly.

Mr  Keene  tapped  his  head  solemnly.  'Most  sickness  starts  in  here,  
that's  what   I think. I've
been  in  this  business  a  long,  long  time,  and  I  knew  about  placebos  
a  mighty  stretch  of  years
before  those  doctors  at  DePaul  University  did  their  study.  Usually  
it's  old  folks  who  end  up
getting  the  placebos.  The  old  fellow  or  the  old  girl  will  go  to  
the  doctor,  convinced  that
they've got heart disease or cancer or diabetes or some damn thing. But in a 
good many cases
it's  nothing  like  that  at  all.  They  don't  feel  good  because  they're  
old,  that's  all.  But  what's  a
doctor  to  do?  Tell  them  they're  like  watches  with  wornout  
mainsprings?  Huh!  Not  likely.
Doctors  like  their  fees  too  much.'  And  now  Mr  Keene's  face  wore  an  
expression somewhere
between a smile and a sneer.

Eddie  just  sat  there  waiting  for  it  to  be  over,  to  be  over,  to  be 
 over.  You didn't have any
medicine: those words clanged in his mind.


The  doctors  don't  tell  them  that,  and  I  don't  tell  them  that,  
either.  Why bother? Sometimes
an  old  party  will  come  in  with  a  prescription  blank  that  will  say  
it  right  out: Placebo,  or  25
grains Blue Skies, which was how old Doc Pearson used to put it.'

Mr Keene cackled briefly and then sucked on his coffee soda.

'Well,  what's  wrong  with  it?'  he  asked  Eddie,  and  when  Eddie  only  
sat  there,  Mr  Keene
answered his own question. 'Why, nothing! Nothing at all!

'At least . . . usually.

'Placebos are a blessing for old people. And then there are other cases  — 
folks with cancer,
folks  with  degenerative  heart  disease,  folks  with  terrible  things  that 
 we  don't  understand  yet,
some  of  them  children  just  like  you,  Eddie!  In  cases  like  that,  if  
a  placebo  makes  the  patient
feel better, where is the harm? Do you see the harm, Eddie?'

'No  sir,'  Eddie  said,  and  looked  down  at  the  splatter  of  chocolate  
ice  cream,  soda-water,
whipped  cream,  and  broken  glass  on  the  floor.  In  the  middle  of  all  
this  was  the  maraschino
cherry,  as  accusing  as  a  blood-clot  at  a  crime  scene.  Looking  at  
this mess made his chest feel
tight again.

'Then  we're  like  Ike  and  Mike!  We  think  alike!  Five  years  ago,  when 
 Vernon  Maitland  had
cancer of the esophagus  —  a painful, painful sort of cancer  — and the 
doctors had run out of
anything  effective  they  could  give  him  for  his  pain,  I  came  by  his  
hospital  room  with  a  bottle
of   sugar-pills.   He   was   a   special   friend,   you   see.   And   I   
said,   "Vern,   these   are   special
experimental  pain-pills.  The  doctor  doesn't  know  I'm  giving  them  to  
you,  so  for  God's  sake  be
careful    and  don't  tattle  on  me.  They  might  not  work,  but  I  think  
they  will.  Take  no  more  than
one   a day, and only if the pain is especially bad." He thanked me with tears 
in his eyes.  Tears,
Eddie!  And  they  worked  for  him!   Yes!  They  were  only  sugar-pills, but 
they  killed most of his
pain  . . . because pain is here.'

Solemnly, Mr Keene tapped his head again.
Eddie said: 'My medicine does so work.'

'I  know  it  does,'  Mr  Keene  replied,  and  smiled  a  maddening  
complacent  grownup's  smile.
'It  works  on  your  chest  because  it  works  on  your  head.  HydrOx,  
Eddie,  is  water  with  a  dash
of camphor thrown in to give it a medicine taste.'

'No,' Eddie said. His breath had begun to whistle again.

Mr  Keene  drank  some  of  his  soda,  spooned  some  of  the  melting  ice  
cream,  and fastidiously
wiped his chin with his handkerchief while Eddie used his aspirator again.

'I want to go now,' Eddie said.
'Let me finish, please.'

'No! I want to go, you've got your money and I want to go!'

'Let  me  finish,'  Mr  Keene  said,  so  forbiddingly  that  Eddie  sat  back  
in  his  chair.  Grownups
could be so hateful in their power sometimes. So hateful.

'Part  of  the  problem  here  is  that  your  doctor,  Russ  Handor,  is  
weak.  And  pan  of  the
problem  is  that  your  mother  is  determined  you  are  ill.  You,  Eddie,  
have  been  caught  in  the
middle.'

'I'm not crazy,' Eddie whispered, the words coming out in a bare husk.
Mr Keene's chair creaked like a monstrous cricket. 'What?'

'I  said  I'm  not  crazy!'  Eddie  shouted.  Then,  immediately,  a  miserable 
 blush  rose  into  his
face.

Mr  Keene  smiled.  Think  what  you  like,  that  smile  said.  Think  what  
you  like, and I'll think
what I like.

'All  I'm  telling  you,  Eddie,  is  that  you're  not  physically  ill.  Your 
  lungs  don't  have  asthma;
your mind does.'

'You mean I'm crazy.'

Mr Keene leaned forward, looking at him intently over his folded hands.


'I don't know,' he said softly. 'Are you?'

'It's all a lie!' Eddie cried, surprised the words came out so strongly from 
his tight chest. He
was  thinking  of  Bill,  how  Bill  would  react  to  such  amazing  charges.  
Bill  would  know  what  to
say,  stutter  or  not.  Bill  would  know  how  to  be  brave.  'All  a  great 
 big  lie!  I  do  have asthma, I
do!'

'Yes,'  Mr  Keene  said,  and  now  the  dry  smile  had  become  a  weird  
skeletal grin. 'But who
gave it to you, Eddie?'

Eddie's brain thudded and whirled. Oh, he felt sick, he felt very sick.

'Four years ago, in 1954  — the same year as the DePaul tests, oddly enough  — 
Dr Handor
began   prescribing   this   HydrOx   for   you.   That  stands   for   
hydrogen   and   oxygen,   the   two
components  of  water.  I  have  condoned  this  deception  since  then,  but  
I  will  not  condone  it
anymore.  Your  asthma  medicine  works  on  your  mind  rather  than  your  
body.  Your  asthma  is
the  result  of  a  nervous  tightening  of  the  diaphragm  that  is  ordered  
by  your  mind  .  .  .  or  your
mother.

'You are not sick.'

A terrible silence descended.

Eddie  sat  in  his  chair,  his  mind  whirling.  For  a  moment  he  
considered  the  possibility  that
Mr  Keene  might  be  telling  the  truth,  but  there  were  ramifications in 
such an idea that he could
not  face.  Yet  why  would  Mr  Keene  lie,  especially  about  something  so  
serious?  !  Mr  Keene
sat and smiled his bright dry heartless desert smile.

I do  have asthma, I  do. The day that Henry Bowers punched me in the nose, the 
day Bill
and I were trying to make a dam in the Barrens, I almost died. Am I supposed to 
think that my
mind was just . . . just making all of that up?

But  why  would  he  lie?   (It  was  only  years  later,  in  the  library,  
that  Eddie  asked himself the
more terrible question: Why would he tell me the truth?)

Dimly  he  heard  Mr  Keene  saying:  'I've  kept  my  eye  on  you,  Eddie.  I 
 told  you  all  this

because  you're  old  enough  to  understand,  but  also  because  I've  
noticed  you've  finally  made
some friends. They are good friends, aren't they?'

'Yes,' Eddie said.

Mr  Keene  tilted  his  chair  back  (it  made  that  cricketlike  noise  
again),  and  closed  one  eye  in
what  might  or  might  not  have  been  a  wink.  'And  I'll  bet  your  
mother  doesn't  like  them much,
does she?'

'She  likes  them  fine,'  Eddie  said,  thinking  of  the  cutting  things  
his  mother  had  said  about
Richie Tozier  (He  has  a  foul  mouth  .  .  .  and  I've  smelled  his  
breath,  Eddie  .  .  .  I  think  he
smokes},  her  sniffing  remark  not  to  loan  any  mone y  to  Stan  Uris  
because  he  was  a  Jew,  her
outright dislike of Bill Denbrough and 'that fatboy.'

He repeated to Mr Keene: 'She likes them a lot.'

'Does  she?'  Mr  Keene  said,  still  smiling.  'Well,  maybe  she's  right  
and  maybe  she's  wrong,
but  at  least  you  have  friends.  Maybe  you  ought  to  talk  to  them  
about  this  problem  of  yours.
This . . . this mental weakness. See what they have to say.'

Eddie  didn't  reply.  He  was  through  talking  to  Mr  Keene;  that  seemed  
safer.  And  he  was
afraid that if he didn't ge t out of here soon, he really would cry.

'Well!'  Mr  Keene  said,  standing  up.  'I  think  that  just  about  
finishes  us  up,  Eddie.  If  I've
upset you, I'm sorry. I was only doing my duty as I saw it. I — '

But before he could say any more, Eddie had snatched up his aspirator and the 
white bag of
pills  and  nostrums  and  had  fled.  One  of  his  feet  skidded  in  the  
ice-creamy  mess  on  the  floor
and  he  almost  fell.  Then  he  was  running,  bolting  from  the  Center  
Street  Drug  Store  in  spite  of
his whistling breath. Ruby stared after him over her movie magazine, her mouth 
open.


Behind  him  he  seemed  to  sense  Mr  Keene  standing  in  the  doorway  of  
his  office  and
watching  his  graceless  retreat  over  the  prescription  counter,  gaunt  
and  neat  and  thoughtful
and smiling. Smiling that dry desert smile.

He  paused  outside  on  the  three-way  corner  of  Kansas,  Main,  and  
Center.  He  took  another
deep  pull  from  his  aspirator  while  sitting  on  the  low  stone  wall  by 
 the  bus-stop  —  his throat
was now positively slimy with that medicinal taste

(nothing but water with some camphor thrown in)

and  he  thought  that  if  he  had  to  use  the  aspirator  again  today  he  
would  probably  puke  his
guts.

He  slipped  it  into  his  pocket  and  watched  the  traffic  pass  back  and 
 forth,  headed  up  Main
Street and  down  Up-Mile Hill. He tried not to think. The sun beat down on his 
head, blaringly
hot.  Each  passing  car  threw  bright  darts  of  reflection  into  his  
eyes,  and  a  headache  was
starting  in  his  temples.  He  couldn't  find  a  way  to  stay  angry  at  
Mr  Keene,  but   he  had  no
trouble  at  all  feeling  bad  for  Eddie  Kaspbrak.  He  felt  real  bad  for 
 Eddie  Kaspbrak.  He
supposed  that  Bill  Denbrough  never  wasted  time  feeling  sorry  for  
himself,  but  Eddie  just
couldn't seem to help it.

More  than  anything  else  he  wanted  to  do  exactly  what  Mr  Keene  had  
suggested:  go  down
to  the  Barrens  and  tell  his  friends  everything,  see  what  they  would  
say,  find  out  what  answers
they   had.   But   he   couldn't   do   that   now.   His   mother   would   
expect   him   home   with   her
medicines soon

(your mind . . . or your mother)

and if he wasn't there

(your mother is determined you are ill)

trouble  would  follow.  She  would  assume  he  had  been  with  Bill  or  
Richie  or  'the  Jewboy,'
as  she  called  Stan  (insisting  that  she  meant  no  prejudice  by  so  
calling  him,  but  was  simply
'slapping  down  the  cards'  —  her  phrase  for  truth-telling  in  difficult 
 situations).  And  standing
here   on  this  corner,  trying  hopelessly  to  sort  out  his  flying  
thoughts,  Eddie  knew  what  she
would  say  if  she  knew  one  of  his  other  friends  was  a Negro  and  
another  was  a  girl  — a girl
old enough to be getting bosoms.

He  started  slowly  toward  Up-Mile  Hill,  dreading  the  stiff  climb  in  
this  heat.  It  felt  almost
hot  enough  to  fry  an  egg  on  the  sidewalk.  For  the  first  time  he  
found  himself  wishing  for
school  to  be  in  again,  for  a  new  grade  and  a  new  teacher's  
peculiarities  to  contend  with.  For
this dreadful summer to be over.

He  stopped  halfway  up  the  hill,  not  far  from  where  Bill  Denbrough  
would  rediscover  his
bike  Silver  twenty-seven  years  later,  and  pulled  his  aspirator  from  
his  pocket.   HydrOx Mist,
the label said. Administer as needed.

Something  else  clicked  home.   Administer  as  needed.   He  was  only  a  
kid,  still  wet  behind
the  ears  (as  his  mother  sometimes  told  him  when  she  was  'slapping  
down the cards'), but even
a  kid  of  eleven  knew  that  you  didn't  give  someone  real  medicine  and 
 then  write  on  the  label
Administer  as  needed.   If  it  was  real  medicine,  it  would  be  too  
easy  to  kill  yourself  as  you
went   happy-assholing   around   and   administering   as   needed.   He   
supposed   you   could   kill
yourself with plain old aspirin doing that.

He  looked  fixedly  at  the  aspirator,  unaware  of  the  old  lady  who  
glanced  curiously  at  him  as
she  passed  on  down  the  hill  toward  Main  Street  with  her  shopping  
basket  over  her  arm. He
felt  betrayed.  And  for  one  moment  he  almost  cast  the  plastic  
squeezebottle  into  the  gutter  —
better  yet,  he  thought,  throw  it  down  that  sewer-grating.  Sure!  Why  
not?  Let  It  have  it  down
there  in  Its  tunnels  and  dripping  sewer-pipes.  Have  a  pla -cee-bo,  
you  hundred-faced creep!
He  uttered  a  wild  laugh  and  came  within  an  ace  of  doing  it.  But  
in  the  end,  habit  was  simply
too  strong.  He  replaced  the  aspirator  in  his  right  front  pants  
pocket  and  walked  on,  hardly
hearing  the  occasional  blare  of  a  horn  or the diesel drone of the Bassey 
Park bus as it passed


him.  He  was  likewise  unaware  of  how  close  he  was  to  discovering  
what  being  hurt  — really
hurt — was all about.

3

When  he  came  out  of  the  Costello  Avenue  Market  twenty-five minutes 
later with a Pepsi   in'
one  hand  and  two  Payday  candybars  in  the  other,  Eddie  was  
unpleasantly  surprised  to  see
Henry  Bowers,  Victor  Criss,  Moose  Sadler,  and  Patrick  Hockstetter  
kneeling  on  the  crushed
gravel  to  the  left  of  the  little  store.  For  a  moment  Eddie  thought  
they  were  shooting  craps;
then  he  saw  they  were  pooling  their  money  on  Victor's  baseball  
shirt.  Their  summer-school
text-books lay off to one side in an untidy heap.

On  an  ordinary  day  Eddie  might  have  simply  faded  quietly  back  into  
the  store  and  asked
Mr Gedreau if he could leave by the back door but this had been no ordinary 
day. Eddie froze
right  where  he  was  instead,  one  hand  still  holding  the  screen  door  
with  its  tin  cigarette  signs
(WINSTON  TASTES  GOOD,  LIKE  A  CIGARETTE  SHOULD,  TWENTY-ONE  GREAT  
TOBACCOS  MAKE

TWENTY  WONDERFUL  SMOKES,  the  bellboy  who  was  shouting   CALL  FOR  
PHILIP  MORRIS),  the
other clutching the brown grocery bag and the white drugstore bag.

Victor  Criss  saw  him  and  elbowed  Henry.  Henry  looked  up;  so  did  
Patrick  Hockstetter.
Moose,  whose relays  worked  more  slowly,  went  on  counting  out  pennies  
for  five  seconds  or
so before the sudden silence sank into him and he also looked up.

Henry  stood,  brushing  loose  pieces  of  gravel  from  the  knees  of  the  
biballs  he  was  wearing.
There  were  splints  on  the  sides  of  his  bandaged  nose,  and  his  voice 
 had  a  nasal  foghorning
quality.  'Well  I  be  go  to  hell,'  he  said.  'One  of  the  
rock-throwers.  Where's  your  friends,
asshole? They inside?'

Eddie was shaking his head numbly before he realized this was another mistake.

Henry's  smile  broadened.  'Well,  that's  okay,'  he  said.  'I  don't  mind  
taking  you  one  by  one.

Come on down here, asshole.'

Victor  stood  beside  Henry;  Patrick  Hockstetter  trailed  behind  them,  
smiling  in  a  porky
vacant way Eddie was familiar with from school. Moose was still getting up.

'Come  on,  asshole,'  Henry  said.  'Let's  talk  about  throwing  rocks.  
Let's  talk  about  that,  you

wanna?'

Now that it was too late Eddie decided it would be wise to go back into the 
store. Back in
the  store  where  there  was  a  grownup.  But  as  he  retreated  Henry  
darted  forward  and  grabbed
him.  He  pulled  Eddie's  arm,  pulled  hard,  his  smile  turning  into  a  
snarl.  Eddie's  hand  was
ripped  free  of  the  screen  door.  He  was  pulled  off  the  steps  and  
would  have  crashed headlong
into  the  gravel  if  Victor  hadn't  caught  him  roughly  under  the  arms.  
Victor  threw  him.  Eddie
managed  to  keep  on  his  feet,  but  only  by  whirling  around  twice.  The 
 four  boys  faced  him
now  over  a  distance  of  about  ten  feet,  Henry  slightly  ahead  of  the  
others,  smiling.  His  hair
stood up at the back in a cowlick.

Behind  Henry  and  on  his  left  was  Patrick  Hockstetter,  a  genuinely  
spooky  kid.  Eddie  hadn't
ever  seen  him  with  anyone  else  until  today.  He  was  just  enough  
overweight  so  that  his  belly
always  hung  slightly  over  his  belt,  which  had  a  Red  Ryder  buckle.  
His  face  was  perfectly
round, and usually as pale as cream. Now he had a slight sunburn. It was 
heaviest on his nose,
which  was  peeling,  but  it  spread  out  toward  either  cheek  like  wings. 
 In  school, Patrick liked
to  kill  flies  with  his  green  plastic  SkoolTime  ruler  and  put  them  
in  his  pencil-box. Sometimes
he  would  show  his  fly  collection  to  some  new  kid  in  the  playyard  
at  recess,  his  heavy  lips
smiling,  his  gray-green  eyes  sober  and  thoughtful.  He  never  spoke  
when  he  exhibited  his
dead  flies,  no  matter  what  the  new  kid  might  say  to  him.  That  
expression  was  on  his  face
now.


'How  ya  doin,  Rock  Man?'  Henry  asked,  advancing  across  the  distance  
between  them.  'Got
any rocks on you?'

'Leave me alone,' Eddie said in a trembling voice.

"'Leave  me  alone,'"  Henry  mimicked,  waving  his  hands  in  mock  terror.  
Victor  laughed.
'What  are  you  going  to  do  if  I  don't,  Rock  Man?  Huh?'  His  hand  
flashed  out,  incredibly  fast,
and  exploded  against  Eddie's  cheek  with  a  gunshot  sound.  Eddie's  head 
 rocked  back.  Tears
began to pour from his left eye.

'My friends are inside,' Eddie said.

'"My  friends  are  inside,"'  Patrick  Hockstetter  squealed.  'Ooooh!  Ooooh! 
 Ooooh!'  He began
to circle to Eddie's right.

Eddie  started  to  turn  in  that  direction,  Henry's  hand  flashed  out  
again,  and  this  time  his

other cheek flamed.

Don't cry, he thought, that's what they want, but don't you do it Eddie, Bill 
wouldn't do it,
Bill wouldn't cry, and don't you cry, eith —

Victor  stepped  forward  and  gave  Eddie  a  hard  open-handed push in the 
middle of his chest.
Eddie  stumbled  half  a  step  backward  and  then  fell  sprawling  over  
Patrick,  who  had  crouched
directly  behind  his  feet.  He  thudded  to  the  gravel,  scraping  his  
arms.  There  was a  whoof!  as
the wind rushed out of him.

A  moment  later  Henry  Bowers  was  on  top  of  him,  his  knees  pinning  
Eddie's  arms,  his  butt
on Eddie's stomach.

'Got  any  rocks,  Rock  Man?'  Henry  raved  down  at  him,  and  Eddie  was  
more  frightened  by
the mad light  in  Henry's  eyes  than  he  was  by  the  pain  in  his  arms  
or  by  his  inability  to  get  his

breath back. Henry was nuts. Somewhere close by, Patrick Uttered.

'You wanna throw rocks? Huh? I'll give you rocks! Here! Here's some rocks!'

Henry  swept  up  a  handful  of  gravel  and  slammed  it  down  into  Eddie's 
 face.  He  rubbed  the
gravel  into  Eddie's  skin,  cutting  his  cheeks,  his  eyelids,  his  lips.  
Eddie  opened  his  mouth  and
screamed.

'Want  rocks?  I'll  give  you  rocks!  Here's  some  rocks,  Rock  Man!  You  
want  rocks?  Okay!

Okay! Okay!'

Gravel  slammed  into  his  open  mouth,  lacerating  his  gums,  grinding  
against  his  teeth.  He
felt sparks fly against his fillings. He screamed again and spat gravel out.

'Want some more rocks? Okay? How about a few more? How about — '

'Stop  that!  Here,  here!  Stop  that!  You,  boy!  Quit  on  him!  Right  
now!  You  hear  me?  Quit
on him!'

Through  half-lidded,  tear-blurred  eyes,  Eddie  saw  a  big  hand  come  
down  and  grab  Henry
by  the  collar  of  his  shirt  and  the  right  strap  of  his  biballs.  The 
 hand  gave  a  yank  and  Henry
was pulled off. He landed in the gravel and got up. Eddie rose more slowly. He 
was trying to
scramble  to  his  feet,  but  his  scrambler  seemed  temporarily  broken.  He 
 gasped  and  spat
chunks of bloody gravel out of his mouth.

It  was  Mr  Gedreau,  dressed  in  his  long  white  apron,  and  he  looked  
furious.  There  was  no
fear  in  his  face,  although  Henry  stood  about  three  inches  taller  and 
 probably  outweighed  him
by fifty pounds. There was no fear in his face because he was the grownup and 
Henry was the
kid.   Except   this   time,   Eddie   thought,   that   might   not   mean   
anything.   Mr   Gedreau   didn't
understand. He didn't understand that Henry was nuts.

'You  get  out  of  here,'  Mr  Gedreau  said,  advancing  on  Henry  until  he 
 stood  toe  to  toe  with
the  hulking  sullen-faced  boy.  'You  get  out  and  you  don't  want  to  
come  back,  either.  I  don't
hold with bullying. I don't hold with four against one. What would your mothers 
think?'

He  swept  the  others  with  his  hot,  angry  eyes.  Moose  and  Victor  
dropped  their  gazes and
examined  their  sneakers.  Patrick  only  stared  at  and  through  Mr  
Gedreau  with  that  vacant


gray-green  look.  Mr  Gedreau  looked  back  at  Henry  and  got  just  as  
far  as  'You  get  on  your
bikes and — ' when Henry gave him a good hard push.

An  expression  of  surprise  that  would  have  been  comical  in  other  
circumstances  spread
across  Mr  Gedreau's  face  as  he  flew  backward,  loose  gravel  spurting  
out  from  under  his
heels. He struck the steps leading up to the screen door and sat down hard.

'Why you — ' he began.

Henry's shadow fell on him. 'Get inside,' he said.

'You  —  '  Mr  Gedreau  said,  and  this  time  he  stopped  on  his  own.  Mr 
 Gedreau  had  finally
seen  it,  Eddie  realized  —  the  light  in  Henry's  eyes.  He  got  up  
quickly,  apron  flapping.  He
went  up  the  stairs  as  fast  as  he  could,  stumbling  on  the  second  
one  from  the  top  and  going
briefly to one knee. He was up again at once, but that stumble, as brief as it 
had been, seemed
to  rob him of the rest of his grownup authority.

He spun around at the top and yelled: 'I'm calling the cops!'

Henry made as if to lunge for him, and Mr Gedreau flinched back. That was the 
end, Eddie
realized.  As  incredible,  as  unthinkable  as  it  seemed,  there  was  no  
protection  for  him  here.  It
was time to go.

While  Henry  was  standing  at  the  bottom  of  the  steps  and  glaring  up  
at  Mr  Gedreau  and
while  the  others  were  staring,  transfixed  (and,  except  for  Patrick  
Hockstetter,  not  a  little
horrified)  by  this  sudden  successful  defiance  of  adult  authority,  
Eddie  saw  his  chance.  He
whirled, took to his heels, and ran.

He   was   halfway   up   the   block   before   Henry   turned,   his   eyes   
blazing.   'Get   him!'  he
bellowed.

Asthma  or  no  asthma,  Eddie  ran  them  a  good  race  that  day.  There  
were  spaces,  some  of
them  as  long  as  fifty  feet,  when  he  couldn't  remember  if  the  soles  
of  his  P.P.  Flyers  had
touched  the  sidewalk  or  not.  For  a  few  moments  he  even  entertained  
the  giddy  notion  that  he
might be able to outrun them.

Then,  just  before  he  reached  Kansas  Street  and  what  might  have  been  
safety,  a  ilttle kid on
a  trike  suddenly  pedaled  out  of  a  driveway  and  right  into  Eddie's  
path.  Eddie  tried  to  swerve,
but running full-out  as  he  had  been,  he  might  have  done  better  to  
jump  over  the  kid  (the  kid's
name,  in  fact,  was  Richard  Cowan,  and  he  would  grow  up,  marry,  and  
father  a  son  named
Frederick  Cowan,  who  would  be  drowned  in  a  toilet  and  then  be  
partially  eaten  by  a  thing
that  rose  up  from  the  toilet  like  black  smoke  and  then  took  an  
unthinkable  shape),  or  at  least
to try.

One  of  Eddie's  feet  caught   on  the  trike's  back  deck,  where  an  
adventurous  little  shit  might
stand  and  push  the  trike  along  like  a  scooter.  Richard  Cowan,  whose  
unborn  son  would  be
murdered  by  It  twenty-seven  years  later,  barely  rocked  on  his  trike.  
Eddie,  however,  went
flying.  He  struck  the  sidewalk  on  his  shoulder,  rebounded,  came  down  
again,  and  skidded  ten
feet, erasing the skin from his elbows and knees. He was trying to get up when 
Henry Bowers
hit  him  like  a  shell  from  a  bazooka  and  knocked  him  flat.  Eddie's  
nose  connected  briskly with
the concrete. Blood flew.

Henry did a  quick  side-roll  like  a  paratrooper  and  was  up  again.  He  
grabbed  Eddie  by  the
nape  of  the  neck  and  by  his  right  wrist.  His  breath,  snorting  
through  his  swelled  and  splinted
nose, was warm and moist.

'Want  rocks,  Rock  Man?  Sure!  Shit!'  He  jerked  Eddie's  wrist  halfway  
up  his  back.  Eddie
yelled.  'Rocks  for  the  Rock  Man,  right,  Rock  Man?'  He  jerked  Eddie's 
 wrist  up  even  higher.
Eddie  screamed.  Behind  him,  dimly,  he  could  hear  the  others  
approaching,  and  the  little kid
on the trike starting to bawl.  Join the club, kid,  he thought, and in spite 
of the pain, in spite of
the tears and the fear, he brayed a huge donkeylike hee-haw of laughter.


'You  think  this  is  funny?'  Henry  asked,  sounding  suddenly  astounded  
rather  than  furious.
'You  think  this  is  funny?'  And  did  Henry  also  sound   scared?  Years  
later  Eddie  would  think
Yes, scared, he sounded scared.

Eddie  twisted  his  wrist  in  Henry's  grip.  He  was  slick  with  sweat  
and  he  almost  got  away.
Perhaps  that  was  why  Henry  shoved  Eddie's  wrist  up  harder  this  time  
than  before.  Eddie
heard  a  crack  in  his  arm  like  the  sound  of  winterwood  giving  under  
an  accumulated  plate  of
ice.  The  pain  that  rolled  out  of  his  fractured  arm  was  gray  and  
huge.  He  shrieked,  but  the
sound  seemed  distant.  The  color  was  washing  out  of  the  world,  and  
when  Henry  let  go  of  him
and  pushed,  he  seemed  to  float  toward  the  sidewalk.  It  took  a  long  
time  to  get  down  to  that
old  sidewalk.  He  had  a  good  look  at  every  single  crack  in  it  as  
he  glided  down.  He  had  a
chance  to  admire  the  way  the  July  sun  glinted  off  the  flecks  of  
mica  in  that  old  sidewalk.  He
had  a  chance  to  note  the  remains  of  a  very  old  hopscotch  grid  that 
 had  been  done  in  pink
chalk  on  that  old  sidewalk.  Then,  for  just  a  moment,  it  swam  and 
looked like something else.
It looked like a turtle.

He  might  have  fainted  then,  but  he  struck  on  his  newly  broken  arm,  
and  this  fresh  pain  was

sharp,   bright,   hot,   terrible.   He   felt   the   splintered   ends   of  
 the   greenstick   fracture   grind
together.  He  bit  his  tongue,  bringing  fresh  blood.  He  rolled  over  on 
 his  back  and  saw  Henry,
Victor,  Moose,  and  Patrick  standing  over  him.  They  looked  impossibly  
tall,  impossibly  high
up, like pallbearers peering into a grave.

'You  like  that,  Rock  Man?'  Henry  asked,   his  voice  drifting  down  
over  a  distance,  floating
through clouds of pain. 'You like that action, Rock Man? You like that 
jobba-nobba?'

Patrick Hockstetter giggled.

'Your father's crazy,' Eddie heard himself say, 'and so are you.'

Henry's  grin  afded so fast it might have been slapped off his face. He drew 
his foot back to
kick  .  .  .  and  then  a  siren  rose  in  the  still  hot  afternoon.  
Henry  paused.  Victor  and  Moose
looked around uneasily.

'Henry, I think we better get out of here,' Moose said.

'I know damn well  I'm  getting out of here,' Victor said. How far away their 
voices seemed!
Like  the  clown's  balloons,  they  seemed  to  float.  Victor  took  off  
toward  the  library,  cutting
into McCarron Park to get off the street.

Henry  hesitated  a  moment  longer,  perhaps  hoping  the  cop-car was on some 
other business
and   he   could   continue   with   his   own.   But   the   siren   rose   
again,   closer.   'You   got   lucky,
fuckface,' he said. He and Moose took off after Victor.

Patrick   Hockstetter   waited   for   a   moment.   'Here's  a  little  
something  extra  for  you,'  he
whispered  in  his  low,  husky  voice.  He  inhaled  and  spat  a  large  
green  lunger  into  Eddie's
upturned,  sweating,  bloody  face.  Splat.  'Don't eat it all at once if you 
don't want,' Patrick said,
smiling his liverish unsettling smile. 'Save some for later, if you want.'

Then he turned slowly and was also gone.

Eddie  tried  to  wipe  the  lunger  off  with  his  good  arm,  but  even  
that  little  movement  made
the pain flare again.

Now  when  you  started  off  for  the  drugstore,  you  never  thought  you'd  
end  up  on  the
Costello  Avenue  sidewalk  with  a  busted  arm  and  Patrick  Hockstetter's  
snot  running  down

your face, did you? You never even got to drink your Pepsi. Life's full of 
surprises, isn't it?

Incredibly, he laughed again.  It  was  a  weak  sound,  and  it  hurt  his  
broken  arm  to  laugh,  but
it  felt  good.  And  there  was  something  else:  no  asthma.  His  breathing 
 was  okay,  at  least  for
now.  A  good  thing,  too.  He  never  would  have  been  able  to  get  to  
his  aspirator.  Never  in  a
thousand years.

The siren was very close now, whooping and whooping. Eddie closed his eyes and 
saw red
under  his  eyelids.  Then  the  red  turned  black  as  a  shadow  fell  over  
him.  It  was  the  little  kid
with the trike.


'You okay?' the little kid asked.
'Do I look okay?' Eddie asked.

'No, you look terrible,' the little kid said, and pedaled off, singing 'The 
Farmer in the Dell.'

Eddie  began  to  giggle.  Here  was  the  cop-car;  he  could  hear  the  
squeal  of  its  brakes.  He
found  himself  hoping  vaguely  that  Mr  Nell  would  be  in  it,  even  
though  he  knew  Mr  Nell  was
a foot patrolman.

Why in the name of God are you giggling?

He  didn't  know,  any  more  than  he  knew  why  he  should  feel,  in  spite 
 of  the  pain,  such
intense  relief.  Was  it  maybe  just  because  he  was  still  alive, that 
the worst he had suffered was
a broken arm, and there were still some pieces to pick up? He settled for that, 
but years later,
sitting  in  the  Derry  Library  with  a  glass  of  gin  and  prune  juice  
in  front  of  him  and  his
aspirator  near  at  hand,  he  told  the  others  he  thought  it  was  
something  more  than  that;  he  had
been old enough to feel that something more, but not to understand or define 
it.

I think it was the first real pain I ever felt in my life, he would tell the 
others. It wasn't what
I thought it would be at all. It didn't put an end to me as a person. I think . 
. . it gave me a
basis for comparison, finding out you could still exist inside the pain, in 
spite of the pain.

Eddie  turned  his  head  weakly  to  the  right  and  saw  large  black  
Firestone  tires,  blinding
chrome   hubcaps,   and   pulsing   blue   lights.   He   heard   Mr   Nell's   
voice   then,   thickly   Irish,
impossibly  Irish,  more  like  Richie's  Irish  Cop  Voice  than  Mr  Nell's  
real  voice  .  .  .  but  perhaps
that      was the distance:

'Holy Jaysus, it's the Kaspbrak bye!'
At this point Eddie floated away.

4

And, with one exception, stayed away for quite awhile.

There  was  a  brief  period  of  consciousness  in  the  ambulance.  He  saw  
Mr  Nell  sitting  across
from  him,  tipping  a  drink  from  his  little  brown  bottle  and  reading  
a  paperback  called  The
Jury.  The girl on the cover had the biggest bosoms Eddie had ever seen. His 
eyes shifted past
Mr  Nell  to  the  driver  up  front.  The  driver  peered  around  at  Eddie  
with  a  big  leering  grin,  his
skin   livid   with   greasepaint   and   talcum   powder,   his   eyes   shiny 
  as   new   quarters.   It   was
Pennywise.

'Mr Nell,' Eddie husked.

Mr Nell looked up and smiled. 'How are you feelin, me bye?'
' . . . driver . . . the driver . . . '

'Yes,  we'll  be  there  in  a  jig,'  Mr  Nell  said,  and  handed  him  the  
little  brown  bottle.  'Suck
some of this. It'll make ye feel better.'

Eddie  drank  what  tasted  like  liquid  fire.  He  coughed,  hurting  his  
arm.  He  looked  toward

the front and saw the driver again. Just some guy with a crewcut. No clown.

He drifted off again.

Much later there was the Emergency Room and a nurse wiping blood and dirt and 
snot and
gravel  off  his  face  with  a  cold  cloth.  It  stung,  but  it  felt  
wonderful  at  the  same  time.  He  heard
his  mother  bugling  and  clarioning  outside,  and  he  tried  to  tell  the  
nurse  not  to  let  her  in,  but
no words would come out, no matter how hard he tried.

'  .  .  .  if  he's  dying,  I  want  to  know!'  his  mother  was  bellowing. 
 'You  hear  me?  It's  my  right
to  know,  and  it's  my  right  to  see  him!  I  can sue  you,  you  know!  I 
 know  lawyers,  plenty  of
lawyers! Some of my best friends are lawyers!'


'Don't  try  to  talk,'  the  nurse  said  to  Eddie.  She  was  young,  and  
he  could  feel  her  bosoms
pressing  against  his  arm.  For  a  moment  he  had  this  crazy  idea  that  
the  nurse  was  Beverly
Marsh, and then he drifted away again.

When  he  came  back  his  mother  was  in  the  room,  talking  to  Dr  Handor 
 at  a  mile -a-minute
clip.  Sonia  Kaspbrak  was  a  huge  woman.  Her  legs,  encased  in  support  
hose,  were  trunklike
but weirdly smooth. Her face was pale now except for hectic flaring blots of 
rouge.

'Ma,' Eddie managed,' . . . all right . . . I'm all right . . . '

'You're  not,  you're  not,'  Mrs  Kaspbrak  moaned.  She  wrung  her  hands.  
Eddie  heard  her
knuckles  crack  and  grind.  He  began  to  feel  his  breath  shorten  up  as 
 he  looked  at  her,  seeing
what a state she was in, how this latest escapade of his had hurt her. He 
wanted to tell her to
take it easy or she'd have a heart attack, but he couldn't. His throat was too 
dry. 'You're  not all
right,  you've  had  a  serious  accident,  a  very  serious  accident,  but  
you  will  be  all  right,  I
promise  you  that,  Eddie,  you  will  be  all  right,  even  if  we  need  to 
 bring  in  every  specialist  in
the book, oh Eddie . . . Eddie . . . your poor arm . . . '

She  burst  into  honking  sobs.  Eddie  saw  that  the  nurse  who  had  
washed  his  face  was
looking at her without much sympathy.

All through this aria, Dr Handor had been stuttering, 'Sonia . . . please, 
Sonia . . . Sonia . . .

?'  He  was  a  skinny,  limp-looking  man  with  a  little  mustache  that  
hadn't  grown  very  well  and
which,  in  addition,  had  been  clipped  unevenly,  so  it  was  longer  on  
the  left  side  than  on  the
right.  He  looked  nervous.  Eddie  remembered  what  Mr  Keene  had  told  
him  that  morning  and
felt a certain sorrow for Dr Handor.

At  last,  gathering  himself,  Russ  Handor  managed  to  say:  'If  you  
can't  control  yourself,

you'll have to leave, Sonia.'

She  whirled  on  him  and  he  drew  back.  'I'll  do  no  such  thing!  Don't 
 you  even  suggest  it!

This is my son lying here in agony! My son lying here on his bed of pain!'

Eddie  astounded  them  all  by  finding  his  voice.  'I  want  you  to  
leave,  Ma.  If  they're  going  to
do something that'll make me yell, and I think they are, you'll feel better if 
you go.'

She turned to him,  astonished  .  .  .  and  hurt.  At  the  sight  of  the  
hurt  on  her  face,  he  felt  his
chest  begin  to  tighten  down  inexorably.  'I  certainly  will  not!'  she  
cried.  'What  an  awful  thing
to  say,  Eddie!  You're  delirious!  You  don't  understand  what  you're  
saying,  that's  the  only
explanation!'

'I  don't  know  what  the  explanation  is,  and  I  don't  care,'  the  nurse 
 said.  'All  I  know  is  that
we're standing here doing nothing while we should be setting your son's arm.'

'Are  you  suggesting —  '  Sonia  began,  her  voice  rising  toward the high, 
bugling note it took

on when she was most upset.

'Please, Sonia,' Dr Handor said. 'Let's not have an argument here. Let's help 
Eddie.'

Sonia stood back, but her glowering eyes  — the eyes of a mother bear whose cub 
has been
threatened  —  promised  the  nurse  that  there  would  be  trouble  later.  
Possibly  even  a  suit.  Then
her  eyes  misted,  extinguishing  the  glower  or  at  least  hiding  it.  She 
 took  Eddie's  good  hand
and squeezed it so painfully that he winced.

'It's bad, but you'll be well again soon,' she said. 'Well again soon, I 
promise you that.'

'Sure, Ma,' Eddie wheezed. 'Could I have my aspirator?'

'Of  course,'  she  said.  Sonia  Kaspbrak  looked  at  the  nurse  
triumphantly,  as  if  vindicated  of
some  ridiculous  criminal  charge.  'My  son  has  asthma,'  she  said.  'It's 
 quite  serious,  but  he
copes with it beautifully.'

'Good,' the nurse said flatly.

His  ma  held  the  aspirator  for  him  so  he  could  inhale.  A  moment  
later  Dr  Handor  was
feeling  Eddie's  broken  arm.  He  was  as  gentle  as  possible  but  the  
pain  was  still  enormous.
Eddie  felt  like  screaming  and  gritted  his  teeth  against  it.  He  was  
afraid  if  he  screamed  his
mother would scream, too. Sweat stood out on his forehead in large clear drops.


'You're  hurting  him,'  Mrs  Kaspbrak  said.  'I  know you are! There's no 
need of that! Stop it!

There's no need for you to hurt him! He's very delicate, he can't stand that 
sort of pain!'

Eddie saw the nurse lock her furious eyes with Dr Handor's tired, worried ones. 
He saw the
wordless  conversation  that  passed  between  them:  Send that woman out of 
here, doctor.  And
in the drop of his eyes: I can't. I don't dare.

There  was  great  clarity  inside  the  pain  (although,  in  truth,  this  
was  not  a  clarity  that  Eddie
would  want  to  experience  often:  the  price  was  too  high),  and  in  
that  unspoken  conversation,
Eddie  accepted  everything  Mr  Keene  had  told  him.  His  HydrOx  aspirator 
 was  filled  with
nothing more than flavored water. The asthma wasn't in his throat or his chest 
or his lungs but
in his head. Somehow or other he was going to have to deal with that truth.

He looked at his mother, seeing her clear in his pain: each flower on her Lane 
Bryant dress,
the  sweat-stains  under  her  arms  where  the  pads  she  wore  had  soaked  
through,  the  scuff -marks
on  her  shoes.  He  saw  how  small  her  eyes  were  in  their  pockets  of  
flesh,  and  now  a  terrible
thought  came  to  him:  those  eyes  were  almost  predatory,  like  the  eyes 
 of  the  leper  that  had
crawled out of the basement at 29 Neibolt Street.  Here I come, that's all 
right . . . it won't do
you any good to run, Eddie . . .

Dr   Handor   put   his   hands   gently   around   Eddie's   broken   arm   
and   squeezed.   The   pain
exploded.

Eddie drifted away.

5

They  gave  him  some  liquid  to  drink  and  Dr  Handor  set  the  fracture.  
He  heard  Dr  Handor
telling  his  ma  that  it  was  a  greenstick  fracture,  no  more  serious  
than  any  childhood  break:  'It's
the  sort  of  break  kids  get  falling  out  of  trees,'  he  said,  and  
Eddie  heard  his  ma  respond
furiously: 'Eddie doesn't climb trees! Now I want the truth! How bad is he?'

Then  the  nurse  was  giving  him  a  pill.  He  felt  her  bosoms  against  
his  shoulder  again  and
was  grateful  for  their  comforting  pressure.  Even  through  the  haze  he  
could  see  that  the  nurse
was  angry  and  he  thought  he  said,   She's  not  the  leper,  please  
don't  think  that,  she's  only
eating me because she loves me,  but perhaps nothing came out because the 
nurse's angry face
didn't change.

He  had  a  faint  recollection  of  being  pushed  up  a  corridor  in  a  
wheelchair  and  his  mother's
voice  somewhere  behind,   fading: 'What do you mean,  visiting hours)  Don't  
talk  to  me  about
visiting hours, that's my son!'

Fading.  He  was  glad  she  was  fading,  glad  he  was  fading.  The  pain  
was  gone  and  the  clarity
was  gone  with  it.  He  didn't  want  to  think.  He  wanted  to  drift.  He 
was aware that his right arm
felt  very  heavy.  He  wondered  if  they  had  put  it  in  a  cast  yet.  He 
 couldn't  seem  to  see  if  they
had  or  not.  He  was  vaguely  aware  of  radios  playing  from  rooms,  of  
patients  who  looked  like
ghosts  in  their  hospital  johnnies  walking  up  and  down  the  wide  
halls,  and  that  it  was  hot  .  .  .
so  very  hot.  When  he  was  wheeled  into  his  room,  he  could  see  the  
sun  going  down  in  an
angry orange boil of blood and thought incoherently: Like a great big 
clown-button.

'Come  on,  Eddie,  you  can  walk,'  a  voice  was  saying,  and  he  found  
that  he  could.  He  was
slid  between  crisp  cool  sheets.  The  voice  told  him  that  he  would  
have  some  pain  in  the  night,
but  not  to  ring  for  a  pain-killer unless it got very bad. Eddie asked if 
he could have a drink of
water. The water came with a straw that had an accordion middle so you could 
bend it. It was
cool and good. He drank it all.

There  was  pain  in  the  night,  a  good  deal  of  it.  He  lay  awake  in  
bed,  holding  the  call-button
in  his  left  hand  but  not  pressing  it.  A  thunderstorm  was  going  on  
outside,  and  when  the


lightning  flashed  blue-white,  he  turned  his  head  away  from  the  
windows,  afraid  he  might  see
a monstrous, grinning face etched across the sky in that electric fire.

At  last  he  slept  again,  and  in  his  sleep he had a dream. In it he saw 
Bill, Ben, Richie, Stan,
Mike, and Bev   —  his friends  —  arriving  at  the  hospital  on  their  
bikes  (Bill  was  riding  Richie
double  on  Silver).  He  was  surprised  to  see  that  Beverly  was  wearing  
a  dress   —  it  was  a
lovely   green,   the   color   of   the   Caribbean   in   a   National   
Geographic   plate.  He  couldn't
remember  if  he  had  ever  seen  her  in  a  dress  before;  all  he  
remembered  were  jeans  and  pedal-
pushers  and  what  the  girls  called  'school-sets':  skirts  and  blouses,  
the  blouses  usually  white
with  round  collars,  the  skirts  usually  brown  and  pleated  and  hemmed  
at  mid -shin,  so  that  the
scabs on their knees didn't show.

In  the  dream  he  saw  them  coming  in  for  the  2:00  P.M.  visiting  
hours  and  his  mother,  who
had  been  waiting  patiently  since  eleven,  shouting  so  loudly  at  them  
that  everyone  turned  to
look at her.

If you think you're going to go in there, you've got another think coming!  
Eddie's mother
shouted,  and  now  the  clown,  who  had  been  sitting  here  in  the  
waiting  room  all  along  (but  way
back  in  one  corner,  with  a  copy  of  Look   magazine  held  up  in  front 
 of  his  face  until  now),
jumped  up  and  mimed  applause,  patting  his  white-gloved  hands  together  
rapidly.  He  capered
and  danced,  now  turning  a  cartwheel,  now  executing  a  neat  back-over  
flip,  as  Mrs Kaspbrak
ranted  at  Eddie's  fellow  Losers  and  as  they  shrank,  one  by  one,  
behind  Bill,  who  only  stood
there, pale but outwardly calm, his hands stuffed deep into the pockets of his 
jeans (maybe so
no  one,  including  Bill  himself,  would  be  able  to  see   if  they were 
shaking or not). No one saw
the  clown  except  Eddie  .  .  .  although  a  baby  who  had  been  sleeping 
 peacefully  in  his  mother's
arms awoke and began to cry lustily.

You've  done  enough  damage!  Eddie's ma shouted.  I know who those boys were! 
They've
been in trouble at school, they've even been in trouble with the police! And 
just because those
boys have something against you is no reason for them to have something against 
him. I told
him so, and he agrees with me. He wants me to tell you to go away, he's done 
with you, he
never wants to see any of you again. He doesn't want your so-called friendship 
anymore! Any
of you! I knew it would lead to trouble, and look at this! My Eddie in the 
hospital! A boy as
delicate as he is . . .

The  clown  capered  and  jumped  and  did  splits  and  stood  on  one  hand.  
Its  smile  was  real
enough  now,  and  in  his  dream  Eddie  realized  that  this  was  of  course 
 what  the  clown  wanted,
a  nice  big  wedge  to  drive  among  them,  splitting  them  apart  and  
destroying  any  chance  of
concerted  action.  In  a  kind  of  filthy  ecstasy,  the  clown  did  a  
double  barrel-roll and burlesqued
kissing his mother's cheek.

Th-Th-Those b-b-b-hoys who dih-did it — Bill began.

Don't  you  speak  back  to  me!  Mrs Kaspbrak shrieked.  Don't you  dare  
speak  back  to  me!

He's done with you, I say! Done!

Then  an  intern  came  running  into  the  waiting  room  and  told  Eddie's  
ma  she  would  have  to
be  quiet  or  leave  the  hospital.  The  clown  started  to  fade,  started  
to  wash  out,  and  as  it  did  it
began  to  change.  Eddie  saw  the  leper,  the  mummy,  the  bird;  he  saw  
the  werewolf,  and  a
vampire  whose  teeth  were  Gillette  Blue-Blades  set  at  crazy  angles  
like  mirrors  in  a  carnival
mirror-maze;   he   saw   Frankenstein,   the   creature,   and   something   
fleshy   and   shell-like   that
opened  and  closed  like  a  mouth;  he  saw  a  dozen  other  terrible  
things,  a  hundred.  But  just
before the clown washed out completely, he saw the most terrible thing of all: 
his ma's face.

Nol he tried to scream. No! No! Not her! Not my ma!

But  no  one  looked  around;  no  one  heard.  And  in  the  dream's  fading  
moments,  he  realized
with a cold and wormy horror that they couldn't hear nun. He was dead. It had 
killed him and
he was dead. He was a ghost.


6

Sonia  Kaspbrak's  sour-sweet  triumph  at  sending  Eddie's  so-called  
friends  away  evaporated
almost  as  soon  as  she  stepped  into  Eddie's  private  room  the  next  
afternoon,  on  the  21st  of
July.  She  could  not  tell  exactly  why  the  feeling  of  triumph  should  
fade  like  that,  or  why  it
should  be  displaced  by  an  unfocused  fear;  it  was  something in her 
son's pale face, which was
not  blurred  with  pain  or  anxiety  but  instead  bore  an  expression  she  
could  not  remember  ever
having seen there before. It was sharp, somehow. Sharp and alert and set.

The  confrontation  between  Eddie's  friends  and  Eddie's  ma  had  not  
occurred  in  the  waiting
room,  as  in  Eddie's  dream;  she  had  known  they  would  be  coming  —  
Eddie's  'friends,'  who
were  probably  teaching  him  to  smoke  cigarettes  in  spite  of  his  
asthma,  his  'friends'  who  had
such  an  unhealthy  hold  over  him  that   they  were  all  he  talked  about 
 when  he  came  home  for
the  evening,  his  'friends'  who  got  his  arm  broken.  She  had  told  all 
 of  this  to  Mrs  Van  Prett
next  door.  'The  time  has  come,'  Mrs  Kaspbrak  had  said  grimly,  'to  
slap  a  few  cards  down  on
the  table.'  Mrs  Van  Prett,  who  had  horrible  skin-problems  and  who  
could  almost  always  be
counted  upon  to  agree  eagerly,  almost  pathetically,  with  everything  
Sonia  Kaspbrak  said,  in
this case had the temerity to disagree.

I should  think  you'd  be  glad  he's  made  some  friends, Mrs Van Prett said 
as they hung out
their  washes  in  the  early-morning  cool  before  work  —  this  had  been  
during  the  first  week  of
July. And he's  safer if  he's  with  other  children,  Mrs  Kaspbrak,  don't  
you  think  so?  With  all
that's going on in this town, and all the poor children that have been 
murdered?

Mrs  Kaspbrak's  only  reply  had  been  an  angry  sniff  (in  fact,  she  
couldn't  just  then  think  of
an  adequate  verbal  response,  although  she  thought  of  dozens  —  some  
of  them  extremely
cutting —  later  on),  and  when  Mrs  Van  Prett  called  her  that  evening, 
 sounding  rather  anxious,
to ask if Mrs Kaspbrak would be going to the Beano down at Saint Mary's with 
her like usual,
Mrs  Kaspbrak  had  replied  coldly  that  she  believed  she  would  just  
stay  home  that  evening  and
put her feet up instead.

Well,  she  hoped  Mrs  Van  Prett  was  satisfied  now.  She  hoped  Mrs  Van  
Prett  saw  now  that
the   only   danger   abroad   in   Derry   this   summer   wasn't   the   
sex-maniac  killing  children  and
babies.  Here  was  her  son,  lying  on  his  bed  of  pain  in  Derry Home 
Hospital, he might never be
able  to  use  his  good  right  arm  again,  she  had  heard  of  such  
things,  or,  God  forbid,  loose
splinters  from  the  break  might  work  through  his  bloodstream  to  his  
heart  and  puncture  it  and
kill  him,  oh  of  course  God  would  never  allow  that  to  happen,  but  
she  had  heard  of  it
happening, so that meant God could allow such a thing to happen. In certain 
cases.

So  she  lingered  on  the  Home  Hospital's  long  and  shady  front  porch,  
knowing  they  would
show  up,  coldly  determined  to  put  paid  to  this  so-called  
'friendship,'  this  camaraderie  that
ended in broken arms and beds of pain, once and for all.

Eventually they came, as she had known they would, and to her horror she saw 
that one of
them  was  a  nigger.  Not  that  she  had  anything  against  niggers;  she  
thought  they  had  every
right  to  ride  where  they  wanted  to  on  the  buses  down  south,  and  
eat  at  white  lunch-counters,
and should not be made to sit in nigger heaven at the movies unless they 
bothered white

(women)

people,  but  she  als o  believed  firmly  in  what  she  called  the  Bird  
Theory:  Blackbirds  flew
with  other  blackbirds,  not  with  the  robins.  Crackles  roosted  with  
grackles;  they  did  not  mix  in
with  the  bluebirds  or  the  nightingales.  To  each  his  own  was  her  
motto,  and  seeing  Mike
Hanlon  pedal  up  with  the  others  just  as  if  he  belonged  there  caused 
 her  resolution,  like  her
anger  and  her  dismay,  to  grow  apace.  She  thought  reproachfully,  as  
if  Eddie  were  here  and
could listen to her: You never told me that one of your 'friends' was a nigger.


Well,  she  thought,  twenty  minutes  later,  stepping  into  the  hospital  
room  where  her  son  lay
with  his  arm  in  a  huge  cast  that  was  strapped  to  his  chest  (it  
hurt  her  heart  just  to  look  at  it),
she  had  sent  them  packing  in  jig  time  .  .  .  no  pun  intended.  None 
 of  them  except  for  the
Denbrough  boy,  the  one  who  had  such  a   horrible  stutter,  had  had  
the  nerve  to  so  much  as
speak  back  to  her.  The  girl,  whoever  she  was,  had  flashed  a  pair  
of  decidedly  slutty  jade's
eyes  at  Sonia  —   from  Lower  Main  Street  or  someplace  even  worse,  
had  been  Sonia
Kaspbrak's opinion  —  but she had wisely kept her mouth shut. If she had dared 
so much as to
let out a peep, Sonia would have given her a piece of her mind; would have told 
her what sort
of  girls  ran  with  the  boys.  There  were  names  for  girls  like  that,  
and  she  would  not  have  her
son associated, now or ever, with the girls who bore them.

The  others  had  done  no  more  than  look  down  at  their  shuffling  feet. 
 That  was  about  what
she  had  expected.  When  she  was  done  saying  what  she  had  to  say,  
they  had  gotten  on  their
bikes  and  ridden  away.  The  Denbrough  boy  had  the  Tozier  boy  riding  
double  behind  him  on
a  huge,  unsafe-looking  bike,  and  with  an  interior  shudder  Mrs  
Kaspbrak  had  wondered  how
many  times  her  Eddie  had  ridden  on  that dangerous bike, risking his arms 
and his legs and his
neck and his life.

I  did  this  for  you,  Eddie,  she  thought  as  she  walked  into  the  
hospital  with  her  head  firmly
up. I know you may feel a bit disappointed at first; that's natural enough. But 
parents know
better  than  their  children;  the  reason  God  made  parents  in  the  first 
 place  was  to  guide,
instruct  .  .  .  and  protect.  After his initial disappoint ment, he would 
understand. And if she felt
a  certain  relief  now,  it  was  of  course  on  Eddie's  behalf  and not on 
her own. Relief was only to
be expected when you had saved your son from bad companions.

Except  that  her  sense  of  relief  was  marred  by  fresh  unease  now,  
looking  into  Eddie's  face.
He was not asleep, as she had thought he would be. Instead of a  drugged doze 
from which he
would   wake   disoriented,   dimwitted,   and   psychologically   vulnerable,  
 there   was   this   sharp,
watchful   look,   so   different   from   Eddie's   usual   soft   tentative   
glance.   Like   Ben   Hanscom
(although  Sonia  did  not  know  this),  Eddie  was  the  sort of boy who 
would look quickly into a
face,    as  if  to  test  the  emotional  weather  brewing  there,  and  
glance  just  as  quickly  away.  But
he was looking at her steadily now  (perhaps it's the medication,  she thought, 
 of course that's
it;  I'll  have  to  consult  with Dr Handor about his medication),  and she 
was the one who felt a
need to glance aside.  He looks like he's been waiting for me,  she thought, 
and it was a thought
that should have made her happy  — a boy waiting for his mother must surely be 
one of God's
most favored creations —

'You sent my friends away.' The words came out flatly, with no doubt or 
question in them.

She  flinched  almost  guiltily,  and  certainly  the  first  thought  to  
flash  through  her  mind  was  a
guilty  one  —  How  does  he  know  that?  He  can't  know  that!  —  and  she 
 was  immediately
furious with herself (and him) for feeling that way. So she smiled at him.

'How are we feeling today, Eddie?'

That  was  the  right  response.  Someone  —  some  foolish  candy-striper,  or 
 perhaps  even  that
incompetent and antagonistic nurse from the day before — had been carrying 
tales. Someone.

'How are we feeling?' she asked again when he didn't respond. She thought he 
hadn't heard
her.  She'd  never  read  in  any  of  her  medical  literature  of  a  broken  
bone  affecting  the  sense  of

hearing, but she supposed it was possible, anything was possible.

Eddie still didn't respond.

She   came   farther   into   the   room,   hating   the   tentative,   almost  
 timid   feeling   inside   her,
distrusting  it  because  she  had  never  felt  tentative  or  timid  around  
Eddie  before.  She  felt  anger
as  well,  although  that  was  still  nascent.  What  right  did  he  have  to 
 make  her  feel  that  way,
after all she had done for him, after all she had sacrificed for him?

'I've  talked  to  Dr  Handor,  and  he  assures  me   that  you're  going  to  
be  perfectly  all  right,'

Sonia  said  briskly,  sitting  down  in  the  straight-backed  wooden  chair  
by  the  bed.  'Of  course  if


there's the slightest problem, we'll go to see a specialist in Portland. In  
Boston,  if that's what it
takes.'  She  smiled,  as  if  conferring  a  great  favor.  Eddie  did  not  
smile  back.  And  still  he  did
not reply.

'Eddie, are you hearing me?'

'You sent my friends away,' he repeated.

'Yes,'  she  said,  dropping  the  pretense,  and  said  no  more.  Two  could  
play  at  that  game. She
simply looked back at him.

But  a  strange  thing  happened;  a  terrible  thing,  really.  Eddie's  eyes  
seemed  to  .  .  .  to  grow,
somehow.  The  flecks  of  gray  in  them  seemed  actually  to  be  moving,  
like  racing  stormclouds.
She  became  aware  suddenly  that he  was  not  'in  a  snit,'  or  'having  a 
 poopie,'  or  any  of  those
things.  He  was  furious  with  her  .  .  .  and  Sonia  was  suddenly  
scared,  because  something  more
than  her  son  seemed  to  be  in  this  room.  She  dropped  her  eyes  and  
fumbled  her  purse  open.
She began searching for a Kleenex.

'Yes,  I  sent  them  away,'  she  said,  and  found  that  her  voice  was  
strong  enough  and  steady
enough  .  .  .  as  long  as  she  wasn't  looking  at  him.  'You've  been  
seriously  injured,  Eddie.  You
don't  need  any  visitors  right  now  except  for  your  own  ma,  and  you  
don't  need  visitors  like
that,  ever.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  them,  you'd  be  home  watching  the  
TV  right  now,  or  building
your soapbox racer in the garage.'

It  was  Eddie's  dream  to  build  a  soapbox  racer  and  take  it  to  
Bangor.  If  he  won  there, he
would  be  awarded  an  all-expenses-paid trip to Akron, Ohio, for the National 
Soapbox Derby.
Sonia   was   perfectly   willing   to   allow   him   this   dream   as   long 
  as   it   seemed   to   her   that
completion  of  the  racer,  which  was  made  out  of  orange  crates  and  
the  wheels  from  a  Choo-
Choo  Flyer  wagon,  was  just  that   —  a  dream.  She  certainly  had  no  
intention  of  letting  Eddie
risk  his  life  in  such  a  dangerous  contraption,  not  in  Derry,  not  in 
 Bangor,  and  certainly  not  in
Akron,  which  (Eddie  had  informed  her)  would  mean  riding  in  an  
airplane  as  well  as  making  a
suicidal  run  down  a  steep  hill  in  a  wheeled  orange  crate  with  no  
brakes.  But,  as  her  own
mother  had  often  said,  what  a  person  didn't  know  couldn't  hurt  him  
(her  mother  had  also  been
fond  of  saying  'Tell  the  truth  and  shame  the  devil,'  but  when  it  
came  to  the  recollection  of
aphorisms Sonia, like most people, could be remarkably selective).

'My  friends  didn't  break  my  arm,'  Eddie  said  in  that  same  flat  
voice.  'I  told  Dr  Handor  last
night  and  I  told  Mr  Nell  when  he  came  in  this  morning.  Henry  
Bowers  broke  my  arm.  Some
other  kids  were  with  him,  but  Henry  did  it.  If I'd  been  with  my  
friends,  it  never  would  have
happened. It happened because I was alone.'

This  made  Sonia  think  of  Mrs  Van  Prett's  comment  about  how  it was 
safer to have friends,
and that brought the rage back like a tiger. She snapped her head up. 'That 
doesn't matter and
you  know  it!  What  do  you  think,  Eddie?  That  your  ma  fell  off  a  
haytruck  yesterday?  Is  that
what  you  think?  I  know  well  enough  why  the  Bowers  boy  broke  your  
arm.  That  Paddy  cop
was  at  our  house,  too.  That  big  boy  broke  your  arm  because  you  and 
 your  "friends"  crossed
him  somehow.  Now  do  you  think  that  would  have  happened  if  you'd  
listened  to  me  and
stayed away from them in the first place?'

'No — I think that something even worse might have happened,' Eddie said.
'Eddie, you don't mean that.'

'I  mean  it,'  he  said,  and  she  felt  that  power  coming  off  him,  
coming  out  of  him,  in  waves.
'Bill  and  the  rest  of  my  friends  will  be  back,  Ma.  That's  something 
  I know. And when they
come,  you're  not  going  to  stop  them.  You're  not  going  to  say  a  
word  to  them.  They're  my
friends, and you're not going to steal my friends just because you're scared of 
being alone.'

She  stared  at  him,  flabbergasted  and  terrified.  Tears  filled  her  eyes 
 and  spilled  down  her
cheeks, wetting the powder there. 'This is how you talk to your mother now, I 
guess,' she said
through  her  sobs.  'Maybe  this  is  the  way  your  "friends"  talk  to  
their  folks. I guess you learned
it from them.'


She  felt  safer  in  her  tears.  Usually  when  she  cried  Eddie  cried,  
too.  A  low  weapon,  some
might  say,  but  were  there  really  any  low  weapons  when  it  came  to  
protecting  her  son?  She
thought not.

She  looked  up,  the  tears  streaming  from  her  eyes,  feeling  both  
unutterably  sad,  bereft,
betrayed  .  .  .  and  sure.  Eddie  would  not  be  able  to  stand  against  
such  a  flood  of  tears  and
sorrow.  That  cold  sharp  look  would  leave  his  face.  Perhaps  he  would  
begin  to  gasp  and
wheeze  a  little  bit,  and  that  would  be  a  sign,  as  it  was  always  a 
 sign,  that  the  fight  was  over
and that she had won another victory . . . for him, of course. Always for him.

She was so shocked to see that same expression on his face  — it had, if 
anything, deepened

—  that  her  voice  caught  in  mid-sob.  There  was  sorrow  under  his  
expression,  but  even  that
was  frightening:  it  struck  her  in  some  way  as  an  adult  sorrow,  and  
thinking  of  Eddie  as  adult
in  any  way  always  caused  a  panicky  little  bird  to  flutter  inside  
her  mind.  This  was  how  she
felt  on  the  infrequent  occasions  when  she  wondered  what  would  happen  
to  her  if  Eddie  didn't
want  to  go  to  Derry  Business  College  or  the  University  of  Maine  in  
Orono  or  Husson  in
Bangor  so  he  could  come  home  every  day  after  his  classes  were  done, 
 what  would happen if
he met a girl, fell in love, wanted to get married.  Where's the place for me 
in any of that?  the
panicky  bird-voice  would  cry  when  these  strange,  almost  nightmarish  
thoughts  came.   Where
would my place be in a life like that? I love you, Eddie! I love you! I take 
care of you and I
love you! You don't know how to cook, or change your sheets, or wash your 
underwear! Why
should you? I know those things for you! I know because I love you!

He  said  it  himself  now:  'I  love  you,  Ma.  But  I  love  my  friends,  
too.  I  think  .  .  .  I  think
you're making yourself cry.'

'Eddie,  you  hurt  me  so  much,'  she  whispered,  and  fresh  tears  doubled 
 his  pale  face,  trebled
it.  If  her  tears  a  few  moments  ago  had  been  calculated,  these  were  
not.  In  her  own  peculiar
way  she was tough  —  she  had  seen  her  husband  into  his  grave  without  
cracking  up,  she  had
gotten  a  job  in  a  depressed  job-market  where  it  wasn't  easy  to  get  
a  job,  she  had  raised  her
son,  and  when  it  had  been  necessary,  she  had  fought  for  him.  These  
were  the  first  totally
unaffected  and  uncalculated  tears  she  had  wept  in  years,  perhaps  
since  Eddie  had  gotten  the
bronchitis when he was five and she had been so sure he would die as he lay 
there in his bed
of    pain,  glowing  bright  with  fever,  whooping  and  coughing  and  
gasping  for  breath.  She  wept
now because of that terribly adult, somehow  alien  expression  on  his  face.  
She  was  afraid  for
him,  but  she  was  also,  in  some  way,  afraid  of him,  afraid of that 
aura that seemed to surround
him . . . which seemed to demand something of her.

'Don't  make  me  have  to  choose  between  you  and  my  friends,  Ma,'  
Eddie  said.  His  voice

was uneven, strained, but still under control. 'Because that's not fair.'

'They're  bad  friends,  Eddie!'  she  cried  in  a  near-frenzy. 'I know that, 
I   feel that with all my
heart,  they'll  bring  you  nothing  but  pain  and  grief!'  And  the  most  
horrible  thing  of  all  was  that
she  did  sense that; some part of her had intuited it in the eyes of the 
Denbrough boy, who had
stood  before  her  with  his  hands  in  his  pockets,  his  red  hair  
flaming  in  the  summer  sun.  His
eyes had been so grave, so strange and distant . . . like Eddie's eyes now.

And hadn't that same aura been around him as was around Eddie now? The same, 
but even
stronger? She thought yes.

'Ma — '

She  stood  up  so  suddenly  she  almost  knocked  the  straight-backed  chair 
 over.  'I'll  come
back  this  evening,'  she  said.  'It's  the  shock,  the  accident,  the  
pain,  those  things,  that  make  you
talk  this  way.  I  know  it.  You  .  .  .  you  .  .  .  '  She  groped,  
and  found her original text in the
flying confusion of her mind. 'You've had a bad accident, but you're going to  
be just fine.  And
you'll  see  I'm  right,  Eddie.  They're bad  friends.  Not  our  sort.  Not  
for  you.  You  think  it  over
and ask yourself if your ma ever told you wrong before. You think about it and 
. . . and . . . '


I'm running!  she thought with a sick and hurtful dismay.  I'm  running  away  
from  my  own
son! Oh God, please don't let this be!

'Ma.'

For  a  moment  she  almost  fled  anyway,  scared  of  him  now,  oh  yes,  he 
 was  more  than
Eddie;  she  sensed  the  others  in  him,  his  'friends'  and  something  
else,  something  that  was
beyond even them, and she was afraid it might flash out at her. It was as if he 
were in the grip
of  something,  some  dreadful  fever, as  he  had been in the grip of the 
bronchitis that time when
he was five, when he had almost died.

She  paused,  her  hand  on  the  doorknob,  not  wanting  to  hear  what  he  
might  say  .  .  .  and

when  he  said  it,  it  was  so  unexpected  that  for  a  moment  she  didn't 
 really understand it. When
comprehension  crashed  down,  it  came  like  a  loose  load  of  cement,  and 
 for  a  moment  she
thought she would faint.

Eddie said: 'Mr Keene said my asthma medicine is just water.'
'What? What?' She turned blazing eyes on him.

'Just  water.  With  some  stuff  added  to  make  it  taste  like  medicine.  
He  said  it  was  a  pla -cee-
bo.'

'That's a lie! That is nothing but a solid lie! Why would Mr Keene want to tell 
you a lie like
that? Well, there are other drug-stores in Derry, I guess. I gue ss — '

'I've  had  time  to  think  about  it,'  Eddie  said,  softly  and  
implacably,  his  eyes  never  leaving

hers, 'and I think he's telling the truth.'

'Eddie, I tell you he's not!' The panic was back, fluttering.

'What  I  think,'  Eddie  said,  'is  that  it  must  be  the  truth  or  there 
 would  be  some  kind  of
warning  on  the  bottle,  like  if  you  take  too  much  it  will  kill  you  
or  at  least  make  you  sick.
Even — '

'Eddie,  I  don't  want  to  hear  this!' she cried, and clapped her hands to 
her ears. 'You're . . .
you're . . . you're just not yourself and that's all that it is!'

'Even  if  it's  something  you  can  just  go  in  and  buy  without  a  
prescription,  they  put  special
instructions  on  it,'  he  went  on,  not  raising  his  voice.  His  gray  
eyes  lay  on  hers,  and  she
couldn't  seem  to  drop  her  gaze,  or  even  move  it.  'Even  if  it's  
just  Vicks  cough  syrup  .  .  .  or
your Geritol.'

He  paused  for  a  moment.  Her  hands  dropped  from  her  ears;  it  seemed  
too  much  work  to
hold them up. They seemed very heavy.

'And it's like . . . you must have known that, too, Ma.'
'Eddie!' She nearly wailed it.

'Because,'   he   went   on,   as   if   she   had   not   spoken   at   all   
—   he   was   frowning   now,
concentrating  on  the  problem,  'because  your  folks  are  supposed  to  
know  about  medicines.
Why,  I  use  that  aspirator  five,  sometimes  six  times  a  day.  And  you  
wouldn't  let  me  do  that  if
you  thought  it  could,  like,  hurt  me.  Because  it's  your  job  to  
protect  me.  I  know  it  is,  because
that's what you always say. So . . . did you know, Ma? Did you know it was just 
water?'

She  said  nothing.  Her  lips  were  trembling.  It  felt  as  if  her  whole  
face  was  trembling.  She
was no longer crying. She felt too scared to cry.

'Because if you   did,'  Eddie  said,  still  frowning,  'if  you did  know,  
I'd  want  to  know  why.  I

can figure  some  things  out,  but  not  why  my  ma  would  want  me  to  
think  water  was  medicine  .

. . or that I had asthma  here'  — he pointed to his chest  — 'when Mr Keene 
says I only have it
up here' — and he pointed to his head.

She  thought  she  would  explain  everything  then.  She  would  explain  it  
quietly  and  logically.

How  she  had  thought  he  was  going  to  die  when  he  was  five,  and  how 
 that  would  have  driven
her  crazy  after  losing  Frank  only  two  years  before.  How  she  came  to 
 understand  that  you
could  only  protect  your  child  through  watchfulness  and  love,  that  you 
 must  tend  a  child  as
you   tended   a   garden,   fertilizing,   weeding,   and   yes,   
occasionally   pruning   and   thinning,   as


much  as  that  hurt.  She  would  tell  him  that  sometimes  it  was  better  
for  a  child  — particularly a
delicate child like Eddie  — to  think  he  was  sick  than  to  really  get 
sick. And she would finish
by  talking  to  him  about  the  deadly  foolishness  of  doctors  and  the  
wonderful  power  of  love;
she would tell him that she  knew  he  had  asthma,  and  it  didn't  matter  
what  the doctors thought
or  what  they  gave  him  for  it.  She  would  tell  him  you  could  make  
medicine  with  more  than  a
malicious  meddling  druggist's  mortar  and  pestle.  Eddie,  she would say,  
it's medicine because
your mother's love makes it medicine, and in just that way, for as long as you 
want me and let
me, I can do that. This is a power that God gives to loving caring mothers. 
Please, Eddie,
please, my heart's own love, you must believe me.

But in the end she said nothing. Her fright was too great.

'But ma ybe we don't even have to talk about it,' Eddie went on. 'Mr Keene 
might have been
joking with me. Sometimes grownups . . . you know, they like to play jokes on 
kids. Because
kids believe almost anything. It's mean to do that to kids, but sometimes 
grownups do it.'

'Yes,'  Sonia  Kaspbrak  said  eagerly.  'They  like  to  joke  and  sometimes  
they're  stupid  .  .  .
mean . . . and . . . and . . . '

'So  I'll  kind  of  keep  an  eye  out  for  Bill  and  the  rest  of  my  
friends,'  Eddie  said,  'and  keep
right on using my asthma medicine. That's probably best, don't you think?'

She  realized  only  now,  when  it  was  too  late,  how  neatly  —  how  
cruelly  —  she  had  been
trapped. What he was doing was almost blackmail, but what choice did she have? 
She wanted
to  ask  him  how  he  could  be so calculating, so manipulative. She opened 
her mouth to ask . . .
and then closed it again. It was too likely that, in his present mood, he might 
answer.

But she knew one thing. Yes. One thing for sure: she would never never  never  
set foot into

Mr Nosy-Parker Keene's drugstore again in her life.

His voice, oddly shy now, interrupted her thoughts. 'Ma?'

She   looked   up   and   saw   it   was   Eddie   again,   just   Eddie,   and 
  she   went   to   him
gladly.

'Can I have a hug, Ma?'

She  hugged  him,  but  carefully,  so  as  not  to  hurt  his  broken  arm  
(or  dislodge  any  loose
bone-fragments  so  they  could  run  an  evil  race  around  his  bloodstream  
and  then  lodge  in  his
heart — what mother would kill her son with love?), and Eddie hugged her back.

7

As  far  as  Eddie  was  concerned,  his  ma  left  just  in  time.  During  
the  horrible  confrontation
with  her  he  had  felt  his  breath  piling  up  and  up  and  up  in  his  
lungs  and  throat,  still  and
tideless, stale and brackish, threatening to poison him.

He  held  on  until  the  door  had  snicked  shut  behind  her  and  then  he  
began  to  gasp  and
wheeze.  The  sour  air  working  in  his  tight  throat  jabbed  up  and  down 
 like  a  warm  poker.  He
grabbed  for  his  aspirator,  hurting  his  arm  but  not  caring.  He  
triggered  a  long  blast  down  his
throat.  He  breathed  deep of the camphor taste, thinking:  It  doesn't  
matter  if  it's  a  pla-cee-bo,
words don't matter if a thing works.

He  lay  back  against  his  pillows,  eyes  closed,  breathing  freely  for  
the  first  time  since  she
had  come  in.  He  was  scared,  plenty  scared.  The  things  he  had  said  
to  her,  the  way  he  had
acted  —  it  had  been  him  and  yet  it  hadn't  been  him  at  all.  There  
had  been  something  working
in him, working  through him, some force . . . and his mother had felt it, too. 
He had seen it in
her  eyes  and  in  her  trembling  lips.  He  had  no  sense  that  this  
power  was  an  evil  one,  but  its
enormous  strength  was  frightening.  It  was  like  getting  on  an  
amusement-park  ride  that  was
really dangerous and realizing you couldn't get off until it was over, come 
what might.


No  turning around,  Eddie  thought,  feeling  the  hot,  itchy  weight  of  
the  cast  that  encased  his
broken arm.  No one goes home until we get to the end. But God I'm so scared, 
so scared. And
he  knew  that  the  truest  reason  for  demanding  she  not  cut  him  off  
from  his  friends  was
something he could never have told her: I can't face this alone.

He cried a little then, and then drifted off into a restless sleep. He dreamed 
of a darkness in
which machinery — pumping machinery — ran on and on.

8

It  was  threatening  showers  again  that  evening  when  Bill  and  the  rest 
 of  the  Losers  returned  to
the  hospital.  Eddie  was  not  surprised  to  see  them  come  filing  in.  
He  had  known  they  would
be back.

It had been hot all day  —  it  was  generally  agreed  later  that  that  
third  week  of  July was the

hottest  of  an  exceptionally  hot  summer  —  and  the  thunderheads  began  
to  build  up  around
four  in  the  afternoon,  purple-black  and  colossal,  pregnant  with  rain,  
loaded  with  lightnings.
People  went  about  their  errands  quickly  and  a  little  uneasily,  with 
one eye always cocked at
the  sky.  Most  agreed  it  would  rain  good  and  hard  by  dinnertime,  
washing  some  of  the  thick
humidity  out  of  the  ear.   Derry's  parks  and  playgrounds,  
underpopulated  all  summer,  were
totally   deserted   that   evening   by   six.   The   rain   had  still   not 
  fallen,   and   the   'swings   hung
moveless  and  shadeless  in  a  light  that  was  a  queer  flat  yellow.  
Thunder  rumbled  thickly  —
that,       a  barking  dog,  and  the  low  mutter  of  traffic  on  Outer  
Main  Street  were  the  only  sounds
that drifted in through Eddie's window until the Losers came.

Bill  was  first,  followed  by  Richie.  Beverly  and  Stan  followed  them,  
then  Mike  Ben  came
last. He looked excruciatingly uncomfortable in a white trurtleneck sweater.

They came to his bed, solemn. Not even Richie was smiling.

Their faces, Eddie thought, fascinated. Jeezum-crow, their faces!

He   was   seeing   in   them   what   his   mother   had   seen   in   him   
that   afternoon:   that   odd
combination   of   power   and   helplessness.   The   yellow   stormlight   
lay   on   their   skins,   making
their faces seem ghost-like, distant, shadowy.

We're  passing  over,  Eddie thought.  Passing  over  into  something  new   —  
we're  on  the
border. But what's on the other side? Where are we going? Where?

'H-h-Hello, Eh-Eh-Eddie,' Bill said. 'How you d-d-doin?'
'Okay, Big Bill,' Eddie said, and tried to smile.

'Had  a  day  yesterday,  I  guess,'  Mike  said.  Thunder  rumbled  behind  
his  voice.  Neither  the
overhead  light  nor  the  bedside  lamp  was  on  in  Eddie's  room,  and  all 
 of  them  seemed  to  fade
in  and  out  of  the  bruised  light.  Eddie  thought  of  that  light  all  
over  Derry  right  now,  lying  long
and  still  across  McCarron  Park,  falling  through  the  holes  in  the  
roof  of  the  Kissing  Bridge  in
smudged  lackadaisical  rays,  making  the  Kenduskeag  look  like  smoky  
glass  as  ifcut  its  broad
shallow  path  through  the  Barrens;  he  thought  of  seesaws  standing  at  
dead  angles  behind
Derry  Elementary  as  the  thunderheads  piled  up  and  up;  he  thought  of  
this  thundery  yellow
light, and the stillness, as if the whole town had fallen asleep . . . or died.

'Yes,' he said. 'It was a big day.'

'My   f-folks   are   g-going  out  to  a  muh-muh-movie  the  night  a-a-after 
  n-next,'  Bill  said.
'When the p-pic-hictures change. We're g-going to m-make them then. The 
suh-suh-suh — '

'Silver balls,' Richie said.

'I thought — '

'It's  better  this  way,'  Ben  said  quietly.  'I  still  think  we  could  
have  made  the  bullets,  but
thinking isn't good enough. If we were grownups — '


'Oh  yeah,  the  world  would  be  peachy  if  we  were  grownups,'  Beverly  
said.  'Grownups  can
make  anything  they  want,  can't  they?  Grownups  can  do  anything  they  
want,  and  it  always
comes  out  right.'  She  laughed,  a  jagged  nervous  sound.  'Bill  wants   
me  to shoot It. Can you
feature that, Eddie? Just call me Beverly Oakley.'

'I  don't  know  what  you're  talking  about,'  Eddie  said,  but  he  thought 
 he  did  —  he  was
getting some kind of picture, anyway.

Ben  explained.  They  would  melt  down  one  of  his  silver  dollars  and  
make  two  silver  balls  a
little   smaller   than   ball-bearings.   And   then,   if   there   really   
was   a  werewolf  residing  at  29
Neibolt  Street,  Beverly  would  put  a  silver  ball  into  Its  head  with  
Bill's  Bullseye  slingshot.
Goodbye   werewolf.   And   if   they   were   right   about   one   creature   
who   wore   many   faces,
goodbye It.

There  must  have  been  some  sort  of  expression on Eddie's face, because 
Richie laughed and
nodded.

'I  know  how  you  feel,  man.  I  thought  Bill  must  have  lost  his  few  
remaining  marbles  when

he  started  talking  about  using  his  slingshot  instead  of  his  dad's  
gun.  But  this  afternoon  — ' He
stopped and cleared his throat. This afternoon after your ma blew us out of the 
water was how
he  had  been  about  to  start,  and  that  obviously  wouldn't  do.  'This  
afternoon  we  went  down  to
the  dump.  Bill  brought  his  Bullseye.  Look.'  From  his  back  pocket  
Richie  took a flattened can
which  had  once  held  Del  Monte  pineapple  chunks.  There  was  a  ragged  
hole  about  two  inches
in  diameter  through  the  middle  of  it.  'Beverly  did  that  with  a  
rock,  from  twenty  feet  away.
Looks   like   a   .38   to   me.   De   Trashmouth   was   convinced.   And   
when  de  Trashmouth  is
convinced, de Trashmouth is convinced.'

'Killing  cans  is  one  thing,'  Beverly  said.  'If  it  was  something  else 
 .  .  .  something  alive  .  .  .

Bill, you should be the one. Really.'

'N-no,' Bill said. 'We a-a-all t-took turns. You suh-suh-saw how it w-w-went.'
'How did it go?' Eddie asked.

Bill  explained,  slowly  and  haltingly,  while  Beverly  looked  out  the  
window  with  her  lips
pressed  so  tightly  together  they  were  white.  She  was,  for  reasons  
she  could  not  explain  even
to  herself, more than afraid: she was deeply embarrassed by what had happened 
today. On the
way  over  here  tonight  she  had  argued  again,  passionately,  that  they  
try  to  make  the  bullets
after  all  .  .  .  not  because  she  was  any  more  sure  than  Bill  or  
Richie  that  they  would actually
work  when  the  time  came,  but  because  —  if  something  did  happen  out  
at  that  house  — the
weapon would be in

(Bill's)

someone else's hands.

But  facts  were  facts.  They  had  each  taken  ten  rocks  each  and  shot  
the  Bullseye  at  ten  cans
set up  twenty  feet  away.  Richie  had  gotten  one  out  of  ten  (and  his  
one  hit  was  really  only  a
nick), Ben had gotten two, Bill four, Mike five.

Beverly,  shooting  almost  casually  and  appearing  to  aim  not  at  all,  
had  banged  nine  of  the
ten cans dead center. The tenth fell over when the rock she fired bounced off 
the rim.

'But first w-w-w-we g-gotta make the uh-uh-ammo.'

'Night  after  next?  I  should  be  out  by  then,'  Eddie  said.  His  mother 
 would  protest  that  .  .  .
but he didn't think she would protest too much. Not after this afternoon.

'Does  your  arm  hurt?'  Beverly  asked.  She  was  wearing  a  pink  dress  
(not  the  dress  he  had

seen  in  his  dream;  perhaps  she  had  worn  that  this  afternoon,  when  
Ma  sent  them  away)  on
which  she  had  appliquéd  small  flowers.  And  silk  or  nylon  hose;  she  
looked  very  adult  but
also  somehow  very  childlike,  like  a  girl  playing  dress-up.  Her  
expression  was  dreamy  and
distant. Eddie thought: I bet that's how she looks when she's sleeping.

'Not too much,' he said.


They  talked  for  awhile,  their  voices  punctuated  by  thunder.  Eddie  did 
 not  ask  them  about
what  had  happened  when  they  came  to  the  hospital  earlier  that  day,  
and  none  of  them
mentioned it. Richie took out his yo-yo, made it sleep once or twice, then put 
it back.

Conversation  lagged,  and  in  one  of  the  pauses  there  was  a  brief  
click  that  made  Eddie  look
around.  Bill  had  something  in  his  hand,  and  for  a  moment  Eddie  felt 
 his  heart  speed  up  in
alarm.  For  that  brief  moment  he  thought  it  was  a  knife.  But  then  
Stan  turned  on  the room's
overhead,  dispelling  the  gloom,  and  he  saw  it  was  only  a  ballpoint  
pen.  In  the  light  they  all
looked natural again, real, only his friends.

'I thought we ought to sign your cast,' Bill said. His eyes met Eddie's 
squarely.

But  that's  not  it,   Eddie  thought  with  sudden  and  alarming  clarity.   
It's  a  contract.  It's  a
contract, Big Bill, isn't it, or the closest we'll ever get to one. He was 
frightened . . . and then
ashamed  and  angry  at  himself.  If  he  had  broken  his  arm  before  this  
summer,  who  would have
signed the cast? Anyone besides his mother, and perhaps Dr Handor? His aunts in 
Haven?

These  were  his friends,  and  his  mother  was  wrong:  they  weren't  bad  
friends.  Maybe,  he
thought, there aren't any such things as good friends or bad friends  — maybe 
there are just
friends,  people  who  stand  by  you  when  you're  hurt  and  who  kelp  you  
feel  not  so  lonely.
Maybe they're always worth being scared for, and hoping for, and living for. 
Maybe worth
dying  for,  too,  if  that's  what  has  to  be.  No  good  friends. No bad 
friends. Only people you
want, need to be with; people who build their houses in your heart.

'Okay,' Eddie said, a little hoarsely. 'Okay, that'd be real good, Big Bill.'

So  Bill  leaned  solemnly  over  his  bed  and  wrote  his  name  on  the  
hillocky  plaster  of  Paris
that  encased  Eddie's  mending  arm,  the  letters  large  and  looping.  
Richie  signed  with  a  flourish.
Ben's  handwriting  was  as  narrow  as  he  was  wide,  the  letters  slanting 
 backward.  They  looked
ready  to  fall  over  at  the  slightest  push.  Mike  Hanlon's writing was 
large and awkward because
he  was  lefthanded  and  the  angle  was  bad  for  him.  He  signed  above  
Eddie's  elbow  and  circled
his  name.  When  Beverly  bent  over  him,  he  could  smell  some  light  
flowery  perfume  on  her.
She  signed  in  a  round  Palmer-method  script.  Stan  came  last,  and  
wrote  his  name  in  tight-
packed little letters by Eddie's wrist.

They  all  stepped  back  then,  as  if  aware  of  what  they  had  done.  
Outside,  thunder  muttered
heavily again. Lightning washed the hospital's wooden exterior in brief 
stuttering light.

That's it?' Eddie asked.

Bill  nodded.  'C-C-Come  oh-oh-over  to  my  h-house  a-after  suh-hupper  day 
 a-a-after  t-
tomorrow if you c-c-can, o-okay?'

Eddie nodded, and the subject was closed.

There  was  another  period  of  desultory,  almost  aimless  conversation.  
Some  of  it  was  about
the  dominant  topic  in  Derry  that  July —  the  trial  of  Richard  Macklin 
 for  the  bludgeon-murder
of  his  stepson  Dorsey,  and  the  disappearance  of  Dorsey's  older  
brother,  Eddie  Corcoran.
Macklin  would  not  break  down  and  confess,  weeping,  on  the  witness  
stand  for  another  two
days,  but  the  Losers  were  in  agreement  that  Macklin  probably  had  
nothing  to  do  with  Eddie's
disappearance. The boy had either run away . . . or It had gotten him.

They  left  around  quarter  of  seven,  and  the  rain  still  had  not  
fallen.  It  continued  to  threaten
until  long  after  Eddie's  ma  had  come,  made  her  visit,  and  gone  home 
 again  (she  had  been
horrified  at  the  signatures  on  Eddie's  cast,  and  even  more  horrified  
at  his  determination  to
leave the hospital the following day  —  she  had  been  envisioning  a  stay  
of  a  week  or  more  in
absolute quiet, so that the ends of the break could 'set together,' as she 
said).

Eventually  the  stormclouds  broke  apart  and  drifted  away.  Not  so  much  
as  a  drop of rain
had  fallen  in  Derry.  The  humidity  remained,  and  people  slept  on  
porches  and  on  lawns  and  in
sleeping bags in back fields that night.

The  rain  came  the  next  day,  not  long  after  Beverly  saw  something  
terrible  happen  to

Patrick Hockstetter.


C H A P T E R  1 7

Another One of the Missing:
The Death of Patrick Hockstetter

1

When he finishes, Eddie pours himself another drink with a hand not completely 
steady. He
looks at Beverly and says, 'You saw It, didn't you? You saw It take Patrick 
Hockstetter the
day after you all signed my cast.'

The others lean forward.

Beverly pushes her hair back in a reddish cloud. Beneath it her face looks 
extraordinarily
pale. She fumbles a fresh cigarette out of her pack — the last one — and flicks 
her Bic.  She
can't seem to guide the flame to the tip of her cigarette. After a moment Bill 
holds her wrist
lightly but firmly and puts the flame where it's supposed to go. Beverly looks 
at him gratefully
and exhales a cloud of bluish-gray smoke.

'Yeah,' she says. 'I saw that happen.'
She shivers.

'He  was  cruh-cruh-crazy,'  Bill  says,  and  thinks:   Just  the  fact  that  
Henry  let  a  flako  like

Patrick  Hockstetter  hang  around  as  that  summer  wore  on  .  .  .  that  
says  something,  doesn't  it?
Either  that  Henry  was  losing  some  of  his  charm,  some  of  his  
attraction,  or  that  Henry's  own
craziness  had  progressed  far  enough  so  that  the  Hockstetter  kid  
seemed  okay  to  him.  Both
came to the same thing  —  Henry's increasing . . . what? degeneration? Is that 
the word? Yes,
in light of what happened to him, where he ended up, I think it is.

There's  something  else  to  support  the  idea,  too,  Bill  thinks,  but  as 
 yet  he  can  only
remember it vaguely. He and Richie and Beverly had been down at Tracker 
Brothers — early
August by then, and the summer-school that had kept Henry out of their hair for 
most of the
summer was just about to end — and hadn't Victor Criss approached them? A very 
frightened
Victor Criss? Yes, that had happened. Things had been rapidly approaching the 
end by then,
and  Bill  thinks  now  that  every  kid  in  Derry  had  sensed  it  — the 
Losers and Henry's group
most of all. But that had been later.

'Oh yeah you got that right,' Beverly says flatly. 'Patrick Hockstetter was 
crazy. None of
the girls would sit in front of him in school. You'd be sitting there, doing 
your arithmetic or
writing a story or a composition, and all at once you'd feel this hand . . . 
almost as light as a
feather, but warm and sweaty. Meaty.' She swallows, and there is a small click 
in her throat.
The others watch her solemnly from around the table. 'You'd feel it on your 
side, or maybe on
your breast. Not that any of us had much in the way of breasts back then. But 
Patrick didn't
seem to care about that.

'You'd  feel  that  .  .  .  that  touch,  and  you'd jerk away from it, and 
turn around, and there

Patrick would be, grinning with those big rubbery lips. He had a pencil-box — '

'Full  of  flies,'  Richie  says  suddenly.  'Sure.  He'd  kill  em  with  this 
 green  ruler  he  had  and
then put em in his pencil-box. I even remember what it looked like — red, with 
a wavy white
plastic cover that slid open and closed.'

Eddie is nodding.

'You'd jerk away and he'd grin and then maybe he'd open his pencil-box so you 
could see
the  dead  flies  inside,'  Beverly  says.  'And  the  worst  thing-the 
horrible thing  — was the way


he'd smile and never say anything. Mrs Douglas knew. Greta Bowie told on him, 
and I think
Sally Mueller said something once, too. But . . . I think Mrs Douglas was 
scared of him, too.'

Ben has rocked back on the rear legs of his chair, and his hands are laced 
behind his neck.

She still cannot believe how lean he is. 'I'm pretty sure you're right,' he 
says.
'Wh-What h-happened to h-h-him, Beverly?' Bill asks.

She swallows again, trying to fight off the nightmarish power of what she saw 
that day in

the Barrens, her roller skates tied together and hung over her shoulder, one 
knee a stinging
net of pain from a fall she had taken on Saint Crispin's Lane, another of the 
short tree-lined
streets  that  dead-ended  where  the  land  fell  (and  still  falls)  sharply 
 into  the  Barrens.  She
remembers (oh these memories, when they come, are so clear and so powerful) 
that she was
wearing  a pair of denim shorts — really  too short, they came only to just 
below the hem  of
her panties. She had become more conscious of her body over the last year — 
over the last
six months, actually, as it began to curve and become more womanly. The mirror 
was one
reason for this heightened consciousness, of course, but not the main one; the 
main one was
that her father seemed even sharper just lately, more apt to use his slapping 
hand or even his
fists. He seemed restless, almost caged, and she was more and more nervous when 
she was
around him, more and more on her mark. It was as if there was a smell they made 
between
them, a smell that wasn't there when she was in the apartment alone, one that 
had never been
there when they were in it together — not until this summer. And when Mom was 
gone it was
worse. If there was a smell, some smell, then he knew it too, maybe, because 
Bev saw less and
less of him as the hot weather wore on, partly because of his summer bowling 
league, partly
because he was helping his friend Joe Tammerly fix cars . . . but she suspects 
it was partly
that smell, the one they made between them, neither of them meaning to but 
making it just the
same, as helpless to stop it as either was helpless to stop sweating in July.

The vision of the birds, hundreds and thousands of them, descending on the 
roofpeaks of
houses, on telephone wires, on TV aerials, intervenes again.

'And poison ivy,' she says aloud.
'W-W-What?' Bill asks.

'Something about poison ivy,' she says slowly, looking at him. 'But it wasn't. 
It just felt like

poison ivy. Mike — ?'

'Never mind,' Mike says. 'It will come. Tell us what you do remember, Bev.'

I  remember  the  blue  shorts,   she  would  tell  them,  and  how  faded  
they  were  getting;  how
tight  around  my  hips  and  butt.  I  had  half  a  pack  of  Lucky  Strikes  
in  one  pocket  and  the
Bullseye in the other —

'Do you remember the Bullseye?' she asks Richie, but they all nod.

'Bill gave it to me,' she says. 'I didn't want it, but it . . . he . . . ' She 
smiles at Bill, a little
wanly. 'You couldn't say no to Big Bill, that was all. So I had it and that's 
why I was out by
myself that day. To practice. I still didn't think I'd have the guts to use it 
when the time came.
Except . . . I used it that day. I had to. I killed one of them . . . one of 
the parts of It. It was
terrible. Even now it's hard for me to think of. And one of the others got me. 
Look.'

She raises her arm and turns it over so they can all see a puckery scar on the 
roundest part
of her upper forearm. It looks as if a hot circular object about the size of a 
Havana cigar had
been  pressed against her skin. It is slightly sunken, and looking at it gives 
Mike Hanlon a
chill.  This  is  one  of  the  parts  of  the  story  which,  like  Eddie's  
unwilling  heart -to-heart with
Keene, he has suspected but never actually heard.

'You were right about one thing, Richie,' she says. 'That Bullseye was a 
killer. I was scared
of it, but I sorta loved it, too.'

Richie laughs and claps her on the back. 'Shit, I knew that back then, you 
stupid skirt.'
'You did? Really?'

'Yeah, really,' he says. 'It was something in your eyes, Bevvie.'


'I mean, it looked like a toy, but it was real. You could blow holes in things.'
'And you blew a hole in something with it that day,' Ben muses.

She nods.

'Was it Patrick you — '

'No,  God  no!'  Beverly says. 'It was the other . . . wait.' She crushes out 
her cigarette, sips
her  drink,  and  gets  herself  under  control  again.  Finally  she  is.  
Well  .  .  .  no.  But she has a
feeling it's the closest she's going to get tonight. 'I was roller-skating, you 
see, and I fell down
and gave myself a good scrape. Then I decided I'd go down to the Barrens and 
practice. I
went by the clubhouse first to see if you guys were there. You weren't. Just 
that smoky smell.
You guys remember how long that place went on smelling of smoke?'

They all nod, smiling.

'We never really did get the smell out, did we?' Ben says.

'So then I headed down to the dump,' she says, 'because that's where we had the 
. . . the
tryouts, I guess you'd call them, and I knew there'd be lots of things to shoot 
at. Maybe even,
you know, rats.' She pauses. There's a fine misty sweat on her forehead now. 
'That's what I
really wanted to shoot at,' she says finally. 'Something that was alive. Not a 
seagull — I knew
I couldn't shoot a gull — but a rat . . . I wanted to see if I could.

'I'm glad I came from the Kansas Street side instead of the Old Cape side, 
though, because
there wasn't much cover over there by the railroad embankment. They would have 
seen me
and God knows what would have happened then.'

'Who would have suh-suh-seen y-you?'

'Them,'   Beverly   says.   'Henry   Bowers,   Victor   Criss,   Belch   
Huggins,   and   Patrick
Hockstetter. They were down in the dump and —

Suddenly, amazing all of them, she begins to giggle like a child, her cheeks 
turning rose-

red. She giggles until tears stand in her eyes.

'What the hell, Bev,' Rickie says. 'Let us in on the joke.'

'Oh it was a joke, all right,' she says. 'It was a joke, but I think they might 
have killed me if
they knew I'd seen.'

'I remember now!' Ben cries, and he begins to laugh, too. 'I remember you 
telling us!'

Giggling wildly, Beverly says, 'They had their pants down and they were 
lighting farts.'

There is an instant of thunderstruck silence and then they all begin to  laugh 
— the sound
echoes through the library.

Thinking of exactly how to tell them of Patrick Hockstetter's death, the thing 
she fixes on
first is how approaching the town dump from the Kansas Street side was like 
entering some
weird asteroid belt. There was a rutted din track (a town road, actually; it 
even had a name,
Old  Lyme  Street)  that  ran  from  Kansas  Street  to  the  dump,  the  only  
actual  road  into  the
Barrens — the city's dump trucks used it. Beverly walked near Old Lyme Street 
but didn't take
it    — she had grown more cautious — she supposed all of them had — since 
Eddie's arm had
been broken. Especially when she was alone.

She wove her way through the heavy undergrowth, skirting a patch of poison ivy 
with its
reddish oily leaves, smelling the dump's smoky rot, hearing the seagulls. On 
her left, through
occasional breaks in the foliage, she could see Old Lyme Street.

The others are looking at her, waiting. She checks her cigarette pack and finds 
it empty.

Wordlessly, Richie tosses her one of his.

She lights up, looks around at them, and  says: 'Heading toward the dump from 
the Kansas
Street side was a little like

2


entering  some  weird  asteroid  belt.  The  dumpoid  belt.  At  first  there  
was  nothing  but  the
underbrush  growing  from  the  spongy  ground  underfoot,  and  then  you  
would  see  your  first
dumpoid:  a  rusty  can  that  had  once  contained  Prince  Spaghetti  Sauce,  
maybe,  or  an  S  'OK
sodabottle  crawling  with  bugs  attracted  by  the  sweet-sticky  remains  of 
 cream  soda  or  birch
beer.  Then  there  would  be  a bright  wink  of  sun  kicking  off  a  scrap  
of  tinfoil  caught  in  a  tree.
You  might  see  a  bedspring  (or  trip  over  it,  if  you  weren't  watching 
 where  you  were  going)  or
a bone some dog had carried away, gnawed, dropped.

The  dump  itself  wasn't  so  bad   —  was,  in  fact,  sort  of  interesting, 
 Beverly  thought.  What
was nasty (and sort of creepy) was the way it had of spreading. Of creating 
this dumpoid belt.

She  was  getting  closer  now;  the  trees  were  bigger,  mostly  firs,  and  
the  bushes  were
thinning  out.  The  gulls  cheeped  and  cried  in  their  shrill  querulous  
voices,  and  the  air  was
smudgy with the smell of burning.

Now,  on  Beverly's  right,  leaning  at  an  angle  against  the  base  of  a  
spruce  tree,  was  a  rusty
Amana  refrigerator.  Beverly  glanced  at  it,  thinking  vaguely  of  the  
state  policeman  who  had
visited  her  class  when  she  had  been  in  the  third  grade.  He  had  
told  them  that  such  things  as
discarded  refrigerators  were  dangerous   —  a  kid  could  climb  into  one  
while  playing  hide-and-
go-seek,  for  instance,  and  smother  to  death  inside.  Although  why  
anyone  would  want  to  get
in a scroungy old —

She  heard  a  shout,  so  close  it  made  her  jump,  followed  by  laughter. 
 Beverly  grinned.  So
they  were  here.  They  had  left  the  clubhouse  because  of  the  smoky  
smell  and  had  come  down
here. They were maybe breaking bottles with rocks, maybe just dump-picking.

She  began  to  walk  a  little  faster,  the  nasty  scrape  she  had  gotten  
earlier  now  forgotten  in

her  eagerness  to  see  them  .  .  .  to  see   him,  with  his  red  hair  
so  much  like  hers,  to  see if he
would  smile  at  her  in  that  oddly  endearing  one-sided way of his. She 
knew she was too young
to  love  a  boy,  too  young  to  have  anything  but  'crushes,'  but  she  
loved  Bill  just  the  same.  And
she  walked  a  little  faster,  her  skates  swinging  heavily  from  her  
shoulder,  the  sling  of  his
Bullseye beating soft time against her left buttock.

She almost walked into them before realizing it wasn't her gang at all, but 
Bowers's.

She  walked  out  of  the  screening  bushes  and  the  dump's  steepest  side  
lay  about  seventy
yards   ahead,   a   twinkling   avalanche   of   junk   lying   along   the   
high   angle   of   the   gravel-pit.
Mandy  Fazio's  bulldozer  was  off  to  the  left.  Much  closer  in  front  
of  her  was  a  wilderness  of
junked  cars.  At  the  end  of  each  month  these  were  crushed  and  haule 
d  off  to  Portland  for
scrap,  but  now  there  were  a  dozen  or  more,  some  sitting  on  bare  
wheel-rims, some on their
sides,  one  or  two  lying  on  their  roofs  like  dead  dogs.  They  were  
arranged  in  two  rows  and
Beverly  walked  down  the  rough  trash-littered  aisle  between  them  like  
some  punk  bride  of  the
future,  wondering  idly  if  she  could  break  a  windshield  with  the  
Bullseye.  One  of  the  pockets
of her blue shorts bulged with the small ball-bearings that were her practice 
ammo.

The  voices  and  laughter  were  coming  from  beyond  the  junked-out  cars  
and  to  the  left,  at
the  edge  of  the  dump  proper.  Beverly  rounded  the  last  one,  a  
Studebaker  with  its  entire  front
end  missing.  Her  hail  of  greeting  died  on  her  lips.  The  hand  she  
had  put  up  to  wave  did  not
exactly fail back to her side; it seemed to wilt.

Her first furiously embarrassed thought was: Oh dear God, why are they all 
naked?

This  was  followed  by  the  scary  realization  of  who  they  were.  She  
froze  there  in  front  of  the
half-Studebaker with her shadow stapled to the heels of her low-topped 
sneakers. For that one
moment  she  was  totally  visible  to  them;  if  any  of  the  four  had  
looked  up  from  the  circle  they
were  squatting  in,  he  could  not  have  missed  her,  a  girl  of  slightly 
 more  than  medium  height,  a
pair  of  skates  over  one  shoulder,  the  knee  of  one  long  coltish  leg  
still  oozing  blood,  her
mouth slack-jawed, her cheeks scarlet.

Before  darting  back  behind  the  Studebaker  she  saw  that  they  weren't  
entirely  naked  after

all;  they  had  their  shirts  on,  and  their  pants  and  underpants  were  
simply  pulled  down  to  their


shoetops,  as  if  they  had  to  Go  Number  Two  (in  her  shock,  Beverly's  
mind  had  automatically
reverted  to  the  euphemism  she  had  been  taught  as  a  toddler)  — except 
whoever heard of four
boys Going Number Two at the same time?

Once  out  of  sight  again,  her  first  thought  was  to  get  away  —  get 
away fast. Her heart was
pumping  hard,  her  muscles  heavy  with  adrenaline.  She  looked  around,  
seeing  what  she  hadn't
bothered  to  notice  walking  up  here,  when  she  had  thought  the voices 
she heard belonged to
her  friends.  The  row  of  junked  cars  on  her  left  was  really  pretty  
thin  —  they  were  by  no
means packed in door to door as they would be in the week or so before the 
crusher came to
turn  them  into  rough  blocks  of  twinkling  metal.  She  had  been  exposed 
 to  the  boys  several
times  walking  up  to  where  she  was  now;  if  she  retreated,  she  would  
be  exposed  again,  and
this time she might be seen.

Also, she felt a certain shameful curiosity: what in the world could they be 
doing?
Carefully, she peeked around the Studebaker.

Henry  and  Victor  Criss  were  more  or  less  facing  in  her  direction.  
Patrick  Hockstetter  was

on  Henry's  left.  Belch  Huggins  had  his  back  to  her.  She  observed  
the  fact  that  Belch  had  an
extremely   large,   extremely   hairy  ass,  and  half-hysterical  giggles  
suddenly  bubbled  up  her
throat  like  the  head  on  a  glass  of  ginger  ale.  She  had  to  clap  
both  hands  over  her  mouth  and
withdraw behind the Studebaker again, struggling to hold the giggles in.

You've got to get out of here, Beverly. If they catch you —

She  looked  back  down  between  the  junked  cars,  still  holding  her  
hands  over  her  mouth.
The  aisle  was  maybe  ten  feet  wide,  littered  with  cans,  twinkling  
with  little  jigsaw  pieces  of
Saf-T-Glas,  scruffy  with  weeds.  If she  so  much  as  made  a  sound,  they 
 might  hear  her  .  .  .
particularly  if  their  absorption  in  whatever  strange  thing  they  were  
doing  flagged.  When  she
thought  of how casually she had walked up here, her blood ran cold. Also . . .

What in the world can they be doing?

She  peeked  again,  seeing  more  of  the  details  this  time.  There  was  a 
 careless  scatter  of
books  and  papers  nearby  —  schoolbooks.  They  had  just  come  from  their 
 summer  classes,
then,  what  most  of  the  kids  called  Dummy  School  or  Make-up  School.  
And,  because  Henry
and  Victor  were  facing  her  way,  she  could see their  things. They were 
the first  things she had
ever  seen  in  her  life,  other  than  pictures  in  a  smudgy  little  book  
that  Brenda  Arrowsmith  had
showed  her  the  year  before,  and  in  those  pictures  you  really  
couldn't  see  very  much.  Bev
observed  now  that  their  things  were  little  tubes  that  hung  down  
between  their  legs.  Henry's
was  small  and  hairless,  but  Victor's  was  quite  big,  and  there  was  a 
 cloudy  fuzz  of  fine  black
hair just over it.

Bill has  one  of  those,  she thought, and suddenly her whole body seemed to 
flush at once  —
heat  rushed  through  her  in  a  wave  that  made  her  feel  giddy  and  
faint  and  almost  sick  to  her
stomach.  In  that  moment  she  felt  much  the  way  Ben  Hanscom  had  felt  
on  the  last  day  of
school, looking down at her ankle bracelet and observing the way it flashed in 
the sun . . . but
he had not felt the intermixed sense of terror she felt now.

She looked behind her once more. Now the pathway between the cars leading to 
the shelt er
of the Barrens seemed much longer. She was scared to move. If they knew she had 
seen their
things, they would probably hurt her. And not just a little, they would hurt 
her badly.

Belch  Huggins  bellowed  suddenly,  making  her  jump,  and  Henry  yelled:  
'Three  feet!  No
shit, Belch! It was three feet! Wasn't it, Vie?'

Vie agreed it was, and they all roared with troll-like laughter.
Beverly tried another look around the junked Studebaker.

Patrick  Hockstetter  had  turned  and  half-risen  so  that  his  butt  was  
nearly  in  Henry's  face.  In
Henry's  hand  was  a  silvery,  glinting  object.  After  a  moment's  study  
she  made  it  out  as  a
lighter.

'I thought you said you felt one coming on,' Henry said.


'I do,' Patrick said. I'll tell you when. Get ready! . . . Get ready, it's 
coming! Get . . . now!'

Henry  flicked  the  lighter.  At  the  same  moment  there  was  the  
unmistakable  ripping  sound
of  a  really  good  fart.  There  was  no  mistaking  that  sound;  Beverly  
had  heard  it  enough  in  her
own  house,  usually  on  Saturday  night, after the beans and franks. A 
regular bear for his beans
was  her  father.  As  Patrick  blew  off  and  Henry  flicked  the  lighter,  
she  saw  something  that
made  her  jaw  drop.  A  bright  blue  jet  of  flame  appeared  to  roar  
directly  out  of  Patrick's  bum.
To Bev it looked like the pilot-light on a gasburner.

The  boys  roared  their  troll-like  laughter  and  Beverly  withdrew  behind  
the  sheltering  car,
stifling  mad  giggles  again.  She  was  laughing,  but  not  because  she  
was  amused.  In  some  very
weird  way  it  was  funny,  yes,  but  mostly  she  was  laughing  because  
she  felt  a  deep  revulsion
accompanied by a sort of horror. She was laughing because she knew of no other 
way to cope
with  what  she  had  seen.  It  had  something  to  do  with  seeing  the  
boys'  things,  but that was by
no  means  all  or  even  the  great  part  of  what  she  felt.  She  had  
known,  after  all,  that  boys  had
things,  the  same  way  she  knew  that  girls  had  different   things;  this 
was only what you might
call   a   confirmed   sighting.   But   the   rest   of   what   they   were   
doing   seemed   so   strange,  so
ludicrous  and  yet  at  the  same  time  so  deadly-primitive  that  she  
found  herself,  in  spite  of  the
giggling fit, groping for the core of herself with some desperation.

Stop,  she  thought,  as  if  this  were  the  answer,   stop,  they'll  hear  
you,  so  just  you  stop  it,
Bevvie!

But  that  was  impossible.  The  best  she  could  do  was  to  laugh  without 
 engaging  her  vocal
cords,  so  that  the  sounds  came  out  of  her  in  a  series  of  almost  
inaudible  chuffs,  her  hands
pasted over her mouth, her cheeks as red as Mac apples, her eyes swimming with 
tears.

'Holy skit, that hurts!' Victor roared.

'Twelve feet!'  Henry  bellowed.  'I  swear  to  God,  Vie,  twelve  fuckin  
feet!  I swear it on my
mother's name!'

'I  don't  care  if  it  was   twenty  fuckin  feet,  you  burned  my  ass  
off!' Victor howled, and there

was  more  bellowing  laughter;  still  trying  to  giggle  silently  from  
behind  the  sheltering  car,
Beverly  thought  of  a  movie  she  had  seen  on  TV.  Jon  Hall  had  been  
in  it.  It  was  about  this

jungle  tribe,  they  had  a  secret  rite,  and  fi  you  saw  it,  you  got  
sacrificed  to  their  god,  which

was  this  big  stone  idol.  This  did  not  stop  her  giggles,  but  infused 
 them  with  a  nearly  frantic
quality.   They   were   becoming   more   and   more   like   silent   
screams.   Her   belly   hurt.   Tears
streamed down her face.

3

Henry,  Victor,  Belch,  and  Patrick  Hockstetter  ended  up  in  the  dump  
lighting  each  others'  farts
on that hot July afternoon because of Rena Davenport.

Henry  knew  what  resulted  from  consuming  large  amounts  of  baked  beans. 
 This  result  was

perhaps  best  expressed  in  a  little  ditty  he  had  learned  at  his  
father's  knee  when  he  was  still  in
short pants:  Beans, beans, the musical fruit! The more you eat, the more you 
toot! The more
you toot, the better you feel! Then you're ready for another meal!

Rena  Davenport  and  his  father  had  been  courting  for  nearly  eight  
years.  She  was  fat,  forty,
and  usually  filthy.  Henry  supposed  that  Rena  and  his  father  sometimes 
 fucked,  although  he
could not imagine anyone squashing his body down on Rena Davenport's.

Rena's beans were her pride. She soaked them Saturday nights and baked them 
over a slow

fire  all  day  Sunday.  Henry  supposed  they  were  okay  —  they  were  
something  to  shovel  into
your mouth and chew up, anyway — but after eight years anything lost its charm.

Nor  was  Rena  content  to  make  just  a  few  beans;  she  cooked  them  in  
job  lots.  When  she

turned  up  Sunday  evenings  in  her  old  green  De  Soto  (a  naked  rubber  
babydoll  hung  from  the


rearview  mirror,  looking  like  the  world's  youngest  lynch-mob  victim),  
she  usually  had  the
Bowerses'  beans  steaming  on  the  seat  beside  her  in  a  twelve-gallon 
galvanized-steel pail. The
three  of  them  would  eat  the  beans  that  night  (Rena  raving  about  her 
 own  cooking  all  the
while,  crazy  Butch  Bowers  grunting  and  mopping  up  bean  juice  with  a  
piece  of  Sonny  Boy
bread  or  simply  telling  her  to  shut  up  if  there  was  a  ballgame  on  
the  radio,  Henry  just  eating,
staring  out  the  window,  thinking  his  own  thoughts  it  was  over  a  
plate  of  Sunday-night beans
that  he  had  conceived  the  idea  of  poisoning  Mike  Hanlon's  dog  Mr  
Chips),  and  Butch  would
reheat  a  mess  of  them  the  next  night.  On  Tuesdays  and  Wednesdays  
Henry  would  take  a
Tupperware  box  full  of  them  to  school.  By  Thursday  or  Friday,  
neither  Henry  or  his  father
could  eat  any  more.  The  house's  two  bedrooms would smell of stale farts 
in spite of the open
windows.  Butch  would  take  the  remains  and  mix  them  into  the  other  
slops  and  feed  them  to
Bip  and  Bop,  the  Bowerses'  two  pigs.  Rena  would  like  as  not  show  
up  the  following  Sunday
with another steaming pail, and the cycle would start all over again.

That  morning  Henry  had  put  up  an  enormous  quantity  of  leftover  
beans,  and  the  four  of
them  had  eaten  the  whole  lot  at  noon,  sitting  out  on  the  playground 
 in  the  shade  of  a  big  old
elm. They had eaten until they were nearly bursting.

It  had  been  Patrick  who  suggested  they  go  down  to  the  dump,  which  
would  be  fairly  quiet
in  the  middle  of  a  working-day  summer  afternoon.  By  the  time  they  
arrived,  the  beans  were
doing their work quite nicely.

4

Little  by  little,  Beverly  got  herself  under  control  again.  She  knew  
she  had  to  get  out;  beating  a
retreat  was  ultimately  less  dangerous  than  hanging  around.  They  were  
absorbed  in  what  they
were  doing,  and  even  if  worse  came  to  worst,  she  could  get  a  
head-start  (and  in the back of
her  mind  she  had  also  decided  that,  if  worst  came  to  terrible,  a  
few  shots  from  the  Bullseye
might discourage them).

She  was  about  to  begin  creeping  away  when  Victor  said,  'I  gotta  go, 
 Henry.  My  dad  wants
me to help him pick com this afternoon.'

'Oh shit,' Henry said. 'He'll live.'

'No, he's mad at me. Because of what happened the other day.'
'Fuck him if he can't take a joke.'

Beverly  listened  more  closely  now,  suspecting  it  might  be  the  scuffle 
 which  had  ended

with Eddie's broken arm that they were talking about.
'No, I gotta go.'

'I think his ass hurts,' Patrick said.

'Watch your mouth, fuckface,' Victor said. 'It might grow on you.'
'I got to go too,' Belch said.

'Your  father  want  you  to  pick  corn?'  Henry  asked  angrily.  This  was  
what  might  have
passed for a jest in Henry's mind; Belch's father was dead.

'No. But I got a job delivering the Weekly Shopper. I gotta do that tonight.'

'What's this Weekly Shopper crap?' Henry asked, now sounding upset as well as 
angry.
'It's a job,' Belch said with ponderous patience. 'I make money. '

Henry  made  a  disgusted  sound,  and  Beverly  risked  another  peek  around  
the  car.  Victor  and
Belch  were  standing,  buckling  their  belts.  Henry  and  Patrick  were  
still  squatting  with  their
pants down. The lighter glinted in Henry's hand.

'You're not chickening out, are you?' Henry asked Patrick.
'Nope,' Patrick said.

'You don't have to pick corn or go do some pussy job?'


'Nope,' Patrick said again.

'Well,' Belch said uncertainly, 'see you around, Henry.'

'Sure,' Henry said, and spat near one of Belch's clodhopping workshoes.

Vie  and  Belch  started  off  together  toward  the  two  rows  of  wrecked  
cars  .  .  .  toward  the
Studebaker  behind  which  Beverly  was  crouching.  At  first  she  could  
only  cringe,  frozen  with
fear  like  a  rabbit.  Then  she  slid  around  the  left  side  of  the  
Studebaker  and  backed  down  the
gap  between  it  and  the  battered,  doorless  Ford  next  to  it.  For  a  
moment  she  paused,  looking
from  side  to  side,  hearing  them  approach.  She  hesitated,  her  mouth  
cottony-dry,  her  back
itchy  with  sweat;  a  part  of  her  mind  was  numbly  wondering  how  she'd 
 look-in  a  cast  like
Eddie's,  with  the  Losers'  names  signed  on  it.  Then  she  dived  into  
the  Ford  on  the  passenger
side.  She  curled  up  on  the  filthy  floormat,  making  herself  as  small  
as  possible.  It  was  boiling
hot  inside  the  junked-out  Ford,  and  it  smelled  so  thickly  of  dust,  
rotting  upholstery,  and
elderly  rat-crap  that  she  had  to  struggle  grimly  to  keep  from  
sneezing  or coughing. She heard
Belch and Victor pass close by, talking in low voices. Then they were gone.

She sneezed three times, quickly and quietly, into her cupped hands.

She supposed she could go now, if she was careful. The best way to do it would 
be to shift
over  to  the  driver's  side  of  the  Ford,  sneak  back  to  the  aisle,  
and  then  just  do  a  fade.  She
believed she could manage it, but the shock of almost being discovered had 
robbed her of her
courage,  at  least  for  the  time  being.  She  felt  safer  here  in  the  
Ford.  And  maybe,  now  that
Victor and Belch had gone, the other two would also go soon. Then she could go 
back to the
clubhouse. She had lost all interest in target-shooting.

Also, she had to pee.

Come on, she thought. Come on, hurry up and go, hurry up and go, puh-LEEZE!

A moment later she heard Patrick roar with mixed laughter and pain.
'Six feet!' Henry bellowed. 'Just like a fuckin blowtorch! Swear to God!'

Silence  then  for  awhile.  Sweat  trickling  down  her  back.  The  sun  
beating  ht rough the Ford's

cracked windshield on the nape of her neck. Heaviness in her bladder.

Henry  bellowed  so  loud  that  Beverly,  who  had  been  close  to  dozing  
in  spite  of  her
discomfort,  almost  cried  out  herself.  'Damn  it,  Hockstetter!  You  
burned  my  frigging  ass!
What are you doing with that lighter?'

'Ten  feet,'  Patrick  giggled  (just  the  sound  of  it  made  Bev  feel  
cold  and  revolted,  as  if  she
had  seen  a  worm  squirm  its  way  out  of  her  salad).  'Ten  feet  if  it 
 was  an  inch,  Henry.  Bright
blue. Ten feet if it was an inch. Swear to God!'

'Gimme that,' Henry grunted.

Come on, come on, you stupidniks, go, get out!

When Patrick spoke again his voice was so low Bev could barely hear it. If 
there had been
the slightest breath of wind on the air that baking afternoon, she would not 
have done.

'Let me show you something,' Patrick said.
'What?' Henry asked.

'Just something.' Patrick paused. 'It feels good.'
'What?' Henry asked again.

Then there was silence.

I   don't   want   to   look,   I   don't   want   to   see   what   they're   
doing   now,   and   besides,
they  might  see  me,  in  fact  they  probably  will  because  you've  used  
up  all  your  luck
today, girly-o. So just stay right here. No peeking . . .

But   her   curiosity   had   overcome   her   good   sense.   There   was   
something  strange  in  that
silence,  something  a  little  bit  scary.  She  raised  her  head  inch  by  
inch  until  she  could  look
through  the  Ford's  cracked  cloudy  windshield.  She  needn't  have  worried 
 about  being  seen;
both  of  the  boys  were  concentrating  on  what  Patrick  was  doing.  She  
didn't  understand  what


she was seeing, but she knew it was nasty . . . not that she would have 
expected anything else
from Patrick, who was just so weird.

He  had  one  hand  between  Henry's  thighs  and  one  hand  between  his  
own.  One  hand  was
flogging  Henry's  thing  gently;  with  his  other  hand  Patrick  was  
rubbing  his  own.  Except  he
wasn't  exactly  rubbing  it  —  he  was  kind  of  .  .  .   squeezing  it,  
pulling  it,  letting  it  flop  back
down.

What is he doing? Beverly wondered, dismayed.

She  did n't  know,  not  for  sure,  but  it  scared  her.  She  didn't  think 
 she  had  been  this  scared
since  the  blood  had  vomited  out  of  the  bathroom  drain  and  splattered 
 all  over  everything.
Some  deep  part  of  her  cried  out  that  if  they  discovered  she  had  
seen  this,  whatever it was,
they might do more than hurt her; they might actually kill her. Still, she 
couldn't look away.

She   saw   that   Patrick's   thing   had  gotten  a  little  longer,  but  
not  much;  it  still  dangled
between  his  legs  like  a  snake  with  no  backbone.  Henry's,  however,  
had  grown  amazingly.  It
stood  up  stiff  and  hard,  almost  poking  his  bellybutton.  Patrick's  
hand  went  up  and  down,  up
and   down,   sometimes   pausing   to   squeeze,   sometimes   tickling   that 
  odd,   heavy   sac   under
Henry's thing.

Those are his balls,  Beverly thought. Do boys have to go around with those all 
the time?
God, I'd go  crazy!  Another  part  of  her  mind  then  whispered:  Bill has 
those.  On its own, her
mind  visualized  her  holding  them,  cupping  them  in  her  hand,  testing  
their  texture  .  .  .  and  that
hot feeling raced through her again, sparking off a furious blush.

Henry  stared  at  Patrick's  hand  as  if  hypnotized.  His  lighter  lay  on  
the  rocky  scree  beside
him, reflecting hot afternoon sun.

'Want me to put it in my mouth?' Patrick asked. His big, livery lips smiled 
complacently.
'Huh?' Henry asked, as if startled from some deep dream.

'I'll put it in my mouth if you want. I don't m — '

Henry's  hand  flashed  out,  half-curled,  not  quite  a  fist.  Patrick  was  
knocked  sprawling.  His
head  thudded  on  the  gravel.  Beverly  dived  down  again,  her  heart  
crashing  in  her  chest,  her
teeth   locked   against   a   little   whimpering   moan.   After   knocking   
Patrick   down,   Henry   had
turned  and  for  a  moment,  just  before  she  dropped  back  into  her  
little  huddled  ball  on  the
passenger side of the driveshaft hump, it seemed that her eyes and Henry's had 
locked.

Please  God  the  sun  was  in  his  eyes,  she prayed. Please God I'm sorry I 
peeked. Please
God.

There  was  an  agonizing  pause  then.  Her  white  blouse  was  plastered  to 
 her  body  with
sweat.  Droplets  like  seed  pearls  gleamed  on  her  tanned  arms.  Her  
bladder  throbbed  painfully.
She  felt  that  very  soon  she  would  wet  her  pants.  She  waited  for  
Henry's  furious  crazy  face  to
appear  in  the  opening  where  the  Ford's  passenger  door  had  been, sure 
it was going to happen

— how could he have missed seeing her? He would drag her out and hurt her. He 
would —

A  new  and  even  more  terrible  thought  now  occurred  to  her,  and  once  
again  she  had  to
engage   in   a   painful,   crampy   struggle   to   keep   from   wetting   
her   pants.   Suppose   he   did
something  to  her  with  his  thing)  Suppose  he  wanted  her  to  put  it  
in  her  somewhere?  She
knew  where  it  was  supposed  to  go,  all  right;  it  seemed  that  
knowledge  had  suddenly  sprung
into  her  mind  full-blown. She thought that  if Henry tried to put his  thing 
 in  her  she  would  go
crazy.

Please no, please God don't let him have seen me, please, okay?

Then  Henry  spoke,  and  to  her  growing  horror  his  voice  was  coming  
from  someplace  much
closer. 'I don't go for that queer stuff.'

From farther off, Patrick's voice: 'You liked it.'

'I didn't  like  it!'  Henry  shouted.  'And  if  you  tell  anyone  I  did,  
I'll   kill  you, you fucking little
pansy!'


'You  got  a  boner,'  Patrick  said.  He  sounded  like  he  was  smiling.  As 
 much  as  she  feared
Henry  Bowers,  the  smile  would  not  have  surprised  Beverly.  Patrick  was 
 crazy,  crazier  than
Henry, maybe, and people that crazy weren't afraid of anything. 'I saw it.'

Footsteps   crunched   over   the   gravel  —  closer  and  closer.  Beverly  
looked  up,  her  eyes
bulging.  Through  the  Ford's  old  windshield  she  could  now  see  the  
back  of  Henry's  head.  He
was looking toward Patrick now, but if he turned around —

'If you tell anyone, I'll say you're a cocksucker,' Henry said. 'Then I'll kill 
you.'

'You  don't scare  me,  Henry,'  Patrick  said,  and  giggled.  'But  I  might  
not  tell  if  you  gave  me
a dollar.'

Henry   shifted   restlessly.   He   turned   slightly;   Beverly   could   now 
  see   one-quarter  of  his
profile  instead  of  just  the  back  of  his  head.  Please God please God,  
she begged incoherently,
and her bladder throbbed more strongly.

'If  you  tell,'  Henry  said,  his  voice  low  and  deliberate,  'I'll  tell  
what  you've  been  doing  with
the  cats.  With  the  dogs,  too.  I'll  tell  them  about  your  
refrigerator.  You  know  what'll  happen,
Hockstetter? They'll come and take you away and put you into the fucking-A 
loonybin.'

Silence from Patrick.

Henry  drummed  his  fingers  on  the  hood  of  the  Ford  Beverly  was  
hiding  in.  'Do  you  hear
me?'

'I  hear  you.'  Patrick  sounded  sullen  now.  Sullen and a little scared. He 
burst out: 'You liked

it! You got a boner! Biggest boner I ever saw!'

'Yeah,  I  bet  you  seen  a  lot  of  em,  you  fuckin  little  homo  faggot.  
You  just  remember  what  I
said  about  the  refrigerator.  Your  refrigerator.  And  if  I  see   you  
around  again,  I'll  knock  your
block off.'

More silence from Patrick.

Henry  moved  away.  Beverly  turned  her  head  and  saw  him  pass  by  the  
driver's  side  of  the
Ford.  If  he  had  looked  to  his  left  even  a  little  bit,  he  would  
have  seen  her.  But  he  didn't look.
A moment later she heard him heading off the way Victor and Belch had gone.

Now there was just Patrick.

Beverly  waited,  but  nothing  happened.  Five  minutes  dragged  by.  Her  
need  to  urinate  was
now  desperate.  She  might  be  able  to  hold  out  for another two or three 
minutes, but no more.
And it made her uneasy not to know for sure where Patrick was.

She   peeked   through   the   windshield   again   and   saw   him   just   
sitting   there.   Henry   had
forgotten  his  lighter.  Patrick  had  put  his  schoolbooks  back  into  a  
small  canvas  carrier  sack
and  had  slung  it  around  his  neck  like  a  newsboy's,  but  his  pants  
and  underpants  were  still
down  around  his  ankles.  He  was  playing  with  the  lighter.  He  would  
spin  the  wheel,  produce  a
flame  that  was  almost  invisible  in  the  bright  day,  snap  the  lighter  
closed,  and  then  start  all
over  again.  He  seemed  hypnotized.  A  line  of  blood  ran  from  the  
corner  of  his  mouth  to  his
chin,  and  his  lips  were  swelling  up  on  the  right  side.  He  seemed  
not  to  notice,  and  once  again
Beverly  felt  a  squirmy  sort  of  revulsion.  Patrick  was  crazy,  all  
right;  she  had  never  in  her  life
wanted so badly to get away from someone.

Moving   very   carefully,   she   crawled   backward   over   the   Ford's   
driveshaft   hump   and
squeezed under the steering wheel. She put her feet out on the ground and crept 
to the back of
the  Ford.  Then  she  ran  quickly  back  the  way  she  had  come.  When  she 
 had  entered  the  pines
beyond  the  junked  cars;  she  looked  back  over  her  shoulder.  No  one  
was  there.  The  dump
dozed  in  the  sun.  She  felt  the  bands  of  tension  around  her  chest  
and  stomach  loosen  with
relief, and all that was left was the need to urinate, so great that she now 
felt sick with it.

She hurried down the path a short way and then ducked off to the right. She had 
her shorts
unsnapped  almost  before  the  underbrush  had  closed  behind  her  again.  
She  took  a  quick  look
around  to  make  sure  there  was  no  poison  ivy  at  hand;  then  she  
squatted,  holding  the  tough
trunk of a bush for balance.


She  was  pulling  her  shorts  up  again  when  she  heard  approaching  
footsteps  from  the  dump.
All  she  could  see  through  the  bushes  were  flashes  of  blue  denim  and 
 the  faded  plaid  of  a
school-shirt.  It  was  Patrick.  She  ducked  down,  waiting  for  him  to  
pass  by  toward  Kansas
Street.  She  was  more  sanguine  about  her  position  here.  The  cover  was 
 good,  she  no  longer
had  to  pee,  and  Patrick  was  off  in  his  own  cuckoo  world.  When  he  
was  gone  she  would
double back and head for the clubhouse.

But  Patrick  didn't  pass  by.  He  stopped  on  the  path  almost  directly  
opposite  her  and  stood
looking at the rusting Amana refrigerator.

Beverly  could  observe  Patrick  along  a  natural  sight-line  in  the  
bushes  without  too  much

chance  of  being  seen.  Now  that  she  was  relieved,  she  found  she  was  
curious  again  —  and  if
Patrick  did  happen  to  see  her,  she  felt  certain  she  could  outrun  
him.  He  wasn't  as  fat  as  Ben,
but  he  was  podgy.  She  pulled  the  Bullseye  out  of  her  back  pocket,  
however,  and  put  half  a
dozen  steel  pellets  in  the  breast  pocket  of  her  old  Ship  'n  Shore.  
Crazy  or  not,  a  good  one  to
the knee might discourage the likes of Patrick Hockstetter in a hurry.

She  remembered  the  refrigerator  well  enough  now.  There  were  lots  of  
discarded  fridges  at
the  dump,  but  it  suddenly  occurred  to  her  that  this  was  the  only  
one  she'd  seen  which  Mandy
Fazio  hadn't  disarmed  by  either  tearing  out  the  latching  mechanism  
with  pliers  or  simply
removing the door altogether.

Patrick  began  to  hum  and  sway  back  and  forth  in  front  of  the  rusty 
 old  refrigerator,  and
Beverly  felt  a  fresh  chill  course  through  her.  He  was  like  a  guy  
in  a  horror  movie  trying  to
summon a dead body out of a crypt.

What's he up to?

But  if  she  had  known  that,  or  what  was  going  to  happen  when  
Patrick  finished  his  private
ritual and opened the dead Amana's rusty door, she would have run away as fast 
as she could.

5

No one  —  not even Mike Hanlon  —  had  the  slightest  idea  of  how  crazy  
Patrick  Hockstetter
really  was.  He  was  twelve,  the  son  of  a  paint  salesman.  His  mother  
was  a  devout  Catholic

who  would  die  of  breast  cancer  in  1962,  of ur  years  after  Patrick  
was  consumed  by  the  dark

entity  which  existed  in  and  below  Derry.  Although  his  IQ  tested  out  
as  low  normal,  Patrick
had  already  repeated  two  grades,  the  first  and  third.  He  was  taking  
summer  classes  this  year
so  he  would  not  have  to  repeat  the  fifth  as  well.  His  teachers  
found  him  an  apathetic  student
(this  several  of  them  noted  on  the  bare  six  lines  of  the  Derry  
Elementary  School's  report  cards
reserved for  TEACHER'S  COMMENTS)  and a rather disturbing one as well (which 
none noted  —
their  feelings  were  too  vague,  too  diffuse,  to  be  expressed  in  sixty 
 lines,  let  alone  six).  If  he
had  been  born  ten  years  later,  a  guidance  counsellor  might  have  
steered  him  toward  a  child
psychologist  who  might  (or  might  not;  Patrick  was  far  more  clever  
than  his  lackluster  IQ
results indicated) have realized the frightening depths behind that slack and 
pallid moonface.

He  was  a  sociopath,  and  perhaps,  by  that  hot  July  in  1958,  he  had  
become  a  full-fledged

psychopath.  He  could  not  remember  a  time  when  he  had  believed  that  
other  people   —  any
other  living  creatures,  for  that  matter  —  were  'real.'  He  believed  
himself  to  be  an  actual
creature,  probably  the  only  one  in  the  universe,  but  was  by  no  
means  convinced  that  his
actuality  made  him  'real.'  He  had  no  sense  of  hurting,  exactly,  and  
no  real  sense  of  being  hurt
(his  indifference  to  being  struck  in  the  mouth  by  Henry  in  the  dump 
 was  a  case  in  point).  But
while  he  found  reality  a  totally  meaningless  concept,  he  understood  
the  concept  of  'rules'
perfectly.  And  while  all  of  his  teachers  had  found  him  odd  (both  
Mrs  Douglas,  his  fifth-grade
teacher,  and  Mrs  Weems,  who  had  had  Patrick  in  the  third  grade,  
knew  about  the  pencil-box
full  of  flies,  and  while  neither  of  them  totally  ignored  the  
implications,  each  had  between


twenty  and  twenty-eight  other  students,  each  with  problems  of  his  or  
her  own),  none  of  them
had  serious  disciplinary  problems  with  him.  He  might  turn  in  test  
papers  that  were  utterly
blank  —  or  blank  except  for  a  large,  decorative  question-mark  —  and  
Mrs  Douglas  had
discovered  it  was  best  to  keep  him  away  from  the  girls  because  of  
his  Roman  hands  and
Russian  fingers,  but  he  was  quiet,  so  quiet  that  there  were  times  
when  he  might  have  been
taken for a big lump of clay that had been crudely fashioned to look like a 
boy. It was easy to
ignore  a  Patrick,  who  failed  quietly,  when  you  had  to  cope  with  
boys  like  Henry  Bowers  and
Victor  Criss,  who  were  actively  disruptive  and  insolent,  boys  who  
would  steal  milk-money or
happily   deface   school   property   if   given  a  chance,  and  girls  like 
 the  unfortunately  named
Elizabeth    Taylor,    who    was    epileptic    and    whose    few    poor  
  brain-cells    worked    only
sporadically  and  who  had  to  be  discouraged  from  pulling  her  dresses  
up  in  the  playyard  to
show     off  a  new  pan:  of  panties.  In  other  words,  Derry  Elementary  
School  was  the  typical
confused   educational   carnival,   a   circus   with   so   many   rings   
that   Pennywise   himself   might
have  gone  unnoticed.  Certainly  none  of  Patrick's  teachers  (or  his  
parents,  for  that  matter)
suspected that, when he was five, Patrick had murdered his baby brother Avery.

Patrick  had  not  liked  it  when  his  mother  brought  Avery  home  from  
the  hospital.  He  didn't
care (or so he at first told himself) if his parents had two kids, five kids, 
or five dozen kids, as
long as  the kid or kids didn't alter his own schedule. But he found that Avery 
did. Meals came
late.  The  baby  cried  in  the  night  and  woke  him  up.  It  seemed  that  
his  parents  were  always
hanging  over  its  crib,  and  often  when  he  tried  to  get  their  
attention  he  found  that he could not.
For  one  of  the  few  times  in  his  life,  Patrick  became  frightened.  It 
 occurred  to  him  that  if  his
parents  had  brought  him,  Patrick,  home  from  the  hospital,  and  if  he  
 was  'real,'  then  Avery
might  be  'real,'  too.  It  might  even  be  that,  when  Avery  got  big  
enough  to  walk  and  talk,  to
bring  in  his  father's  copy  of  the  Derry  News  from the front step and 
to hand his mother the
bowls  when  she  baked  bread,  they  might  decide  to  get  rid  of  Patrick 
 altogether.  It  was  not
that  he  feared  they  loved  Avery  more  (although  it  was  obvious  to  
Patrick  that  they  did  love
him  more,  and  in  this  case  his  judgment  was  probably  correct).  What  
he  cared  about  was  (1)
the  rules  that  were  being  broken  or  had  changed  since  Avery's  
arrival,  (2)  Avery's  possible
reality, and (3) the possibility that they might throw him out in favor of 
Avery.

Patrick  went  into  Avery's  room  one  afternoon  around  two-thirty,  
shortly  after  the  school-
bus  had  dropped  him  off  from  his  afternoon  kindergarten  session.  It  
was  January.  Outside,
snow  was  beginning  to  fall.  A  powerful  wind  boomed  across  McCarron  
Park  and  rattled  the
frosty  upstairs  storm  windows.  His  mother  was  napping  in  her  bedroom; 
 Avery  had  been
fussy  all  the  previous  night.  His  father  was  at  work.  Avery  was  
sleeping  on  his  stomach, his
head turned to one side.

Patrick,  his  moonface  expressionless,  turned  Avery's  head  so  his  face  
was  pressed  directly
into  the  pillow.  Avery  made  a  snuffling  noise  and  turned  his  head  
back  to  the  side.  Patrick
observed  this,  and  stood  thinking  about  it  while  the  snow  melted  off 
 his  yellow  boots  and
puddled   on   the   floor.   Perhaps   five   minutes   passed   (quick   
thinking   was   not   Patrick's
specialty),  and  then  he  turned  Avery's  face  into  the  pillow  again  
and  held  it  there  for  a
moment.  Avery  stirred  under  his  hand,  struggling.  But  his  struggles  
were  weak.  Patrick  let
go.  Avery  turned  his  head  to  the  side  again,  made  one  snorting  
little  cry,  and  then  went  on
sleeping.  The  wind  gusted,  rattling  the  windows.  Patrick  waited  to  
see  if  the  one  little  cry
would awaken his mother. It didn't.

Now  he  felt  swept  by  a  great  excitement.  The  world  seemed  to  stand  
out  in  front  of  him
clearly  for  the  first  time.  His  emotional  equipment  was  severely  
defective,  and  in  those  few
moments  he  felt  as  a  totally  color-blind  person  might  feel  if  given  
a  shot  which  enabled  him
to  perceive  colors  for  a  short  time  .  .  .  or  as  a  junkie  who  has 
 just  fixed  feels  as  the  smack
rockets his brain into orbit. This was a new thing. He had not suspected it 
existed.


Very  gently,  he  turned  Avery's  face  into  the  pillow  again.  This  time 
 when  Avery  struggled,
Patrick  did  not  let  go.  He  pressed  the  baby's  face  more  firmly  into 
 the  pillow.  The  baby  was
making steady muffled cries now, and Patrick knew it was awake. He had a vague 
idea that it
might  tell  on  him  to  his  mother  if  he  stopped.  He  held  it  down.  
The  baby  struggled.  Patrick
held  it  down.  The  baby  farted.  Its  struggles  weakened.  Patrick  still  
held  it  down.  It  eventually
became  totally  still.  Patrick  held  it  down  for  another  five  minutes,  
 feeling  that  excitement
crest  and  then  begin  to  ebb:  the  shot  wearing  off,  turning  the  
world  gray  again,  the  fix
mellowing into an accustomed low doze.

Patrick  went  downstairs  and  got  himself  a  plate  of  cookies  and  
poured  himself  a  glass  of
milk.  His  mother  came  down  half  an  hour  later  and  said  she  hadn't  
even  heard  him  come  in,
she had been  that tired (you won't be anymore, Mom, Patrick thought, don't 
worry, I fixed it).
She  sat  down  with  him,  ate  one  of  his  cookies,  and  asked  him  how  
school  had  been. Patrick
said it was all right and showed her his drawing of a house and a tree. His 
paper was covered
with  looping  meaningless  scribbles  made  with  black  and  brown  crayon.  
His  mother  said  it
was  very  nice.  Patrick  brought  home  the  same  looping  scrawls  of  
black and brown every day.
Sometimes  he  said  it  was  a  turkey,  sometimes  a  Christmas  tree,  
sometimes  a  boy.  His  mother
always  told  him  it  was  very  nice  .  .  .  although  sometimes,  in  a  
part  of  her  so  deep  she  hardly
knew  it  was  there,  she  worried.  There  was  something  a  little  
disquieting  about  the  dark
sameness of those big scribbled loops of black and brown.

She   didn't   discover   Avery's   death   until   nearly   five   o'clock;   
until   then   she   had   simply
assumed  he  was  taking  a  very  long  nap.  By  then  Patrick  was  watching 
Crusader Rabbit  on
their   seven-inch  TV,  and  he  went  on  watching  TV  through  all  the  
uproar  that  followed.
Whirlybirds  was on when Mrs Henley arrived from next door (his screaming 
mother had been
holding  the  baby's  corpse  in  the  open  kitchen  door,  believing in some 
blind way that the cold
air might revive it; Patrick was cold and got a sweater out of the downstairs 
closet).  Highway
Patrol,  Ben  Hanscom's  favorite,  was  on  when  Mr  Hockstetter  arrived  
home  from  work.  By
the  time  the  doctor  arrived,   Science  Fiction  Theater,  with  Your  Host 
 Truman  Bradley,  was
just  coming  on.  'Who  knows  what  strange  things  the  universe  may  
hold?'  Truman  Bradley
speculated  while  Patrick's  mother  shrieked  and  struggled  in  her  
husband's  arms  in  the  kitchen.
The  doctor  observed  Patrick's deep calm and unquestioning stare and assumed 
the boy was in
shock. He wanted Patrick to take a pill. Patrick didn't mind.

It  was  diagnosed  as  crib -death.  Years  later  there  might  have  been  
questions  about  such  a
fatality,  deviations  from  the  usual  infant-death  syndrome  observed.  But 
 when  it  happened,  the
death  was  simply  noted  and  the  baby  buried.  Patrick  was  gratified  
that  once  things  finally
settled down his meals began to come on time again.

In  the  madness  of  that  afternoon  and  evening  —  people  banging  in  
and  out  of  the  house,
the   red   lights   of   the   Home   Hospital   ambulance   pulsing   on   
the   walls,   Mrs   Hockstetter
screaming  and  wailing  and  refusing  to  be  comforted  —  only  Patrick's  
father  came  within
brushing  distance  of  the  truth.  He  was  standing  numbly  by  Avery's  
empty  crib  some  twenty
minutes  after  the  body  had  been  removed,  simply  standing  there,  
unable  to  believe  any  of  this
had  happened.  He  looked  down  and  saw  a  pair  of  tracks  on  the  
hardwood  floor.  They  had
been  made  by  the  snow  melting  off Patrick's  yellow  rubber  boots.  He  
looked  at  them,  and  a
dreadful  thought  rose  briefly  in  his  mind  like  bad  gas  from  a  deep  
mineshaft.  His  hand  went
slowly  to  his  mouth  and  his  eyes  widened.  A  picture  began  to  form  
in  his  mind.  Before  it
could  come  clear  he  left  the  room,  slamming  the  door  behind  him  so  
hard  that  the  top  of  the
frame splintered.

He never asked Patrick any questions.

Patrick  had  never  done  anything  like  that  again,  although  he  might  
have  done  so  if  the
chance  had  presented  itself.  He felt no guilt, had no bad dreams. As time 
passed, however, he
became  more  aware  of  what  would  have  happened  to  him  if  he  had  
been  caught.  There  were


rules.  Unpleasant  things  happened  to  you  if  you  didn't  follow  them  . 
 .  .  or  if  you  were  caught
breaking them. You could be locked up or stuck in the electrocution chair.

But  that  remembered  feeling  of  excitement  —  that  feeling  of  color  
and  sensation  —  was
simply  too  powerful  and  too  wonderful  to  give  over  entirely.  Patrick  
killed  flies.  At  first  he
only  smacked  them  with  his  mother's  flyswatter;  later  he  discovered  
he  could  kill  them  quite
efficiently  with  a  plastic  ruler.  He  also  discovered  the  joys  of  
flypaper.  A  long  sticky  runner
of  it  could  be  purchased  for  two  cents  at  the  Costello  Avenue  
Market  and  Patrick sometimes
stood  for  as  long  as  two  hours  in  the  garage,  watching  the  flies  
land  and  then  struggle  to  get
free,  his  mouth  ajar,  his  dusty  eyes  alight  with  that  rare  
excitement,  sweat  running  down  his
round  face  and  his  thick  body.  Patrick  killed  beetles,  but  if  
possible  he  captured  them  first.
Sometimes  he  would  steal  a  long  needle  from  his  mother's  pincushion,  
impale  a  Japanese
beetle  on  it,  and  sit  cross-legged  in  the  garden  watching  it  die.  
His  expression  at  these  times
was the expression of a boy  who is reading a very good book. Once he had 
discovered a run-
over  cat  that  was  dying  in  the  gutter  on  Lower  Main  Street  and  sat 
 watching  it  until  an  old
woman  saw  him  pushing  the  squashed  and  mewing  thing  around  with  his  
foot.  She  whacked
him  with  the  broom  she  had  been  using  to  sweep  her  walk.  Go on 
home!  she had shouted at
him.  What  are  you,  crazy?  Patrick had gone on home. He wasn't mad at the 
old woman. He
had been caught breaking the rules, that was all.

Then,  last  year  (it  would  not  have  surprised  Mike  Hanlon  or  any  of  
the  others  at  that  point
to  have  known  that  it  was,  in  fact,  on  the  same  day  that  George  
Denbrough  had  been
murdered),   Patrick   had   discovered   the   rusty   Amana   refrigerator   
—   one   of   the   larger
dumpoids in the belt surrounding the dump itself.

Like  Bev,  he  had  heard  the  cautionary  warnings  about  such  abandoned  
appliances,  about
how  thirty-squirty  million  kids  got  their  stupid  selves  smoked  in  
them  each  year.  Patrick  had
stood  looking  at  the  refrigerator  for  a  long  time,  idly  playing  
pocket-pool  with  himself.  That
excitement  was  back,  stronger  than  it  had  ever  been,  except  for  the  
time  he  had  fixed  Avery.
The  excitement  was  back  because,  in  the  chilly  yet  fuming  wastes  
that  passed  for  his  mind,
Patrick Hockstetter had had an idea.

The  Luces,  who  lived  three  houses  down  from  the  Hockstetters,  missed  
their  cat,  Bobby,  a

week  later.  The  Luce  kids,  who  couldn't  remember  a  time  when  Bobby  
hadn't  been  there,
spent  hours  combing  the  neighborhood  for  him.  They  even  pooled  their  
money  and  put  an  ad
in  the  Derry News  Lost  and  Found  column.  Nothing  came  of  it.  And  if 
 any  of  them  had  seen
Patrick   that   day,   bulkier   than   ever   in   his   mothball-smelling   
winter   parka   (after   the
floodwaters  receded  in  that  fall  of  '57,  it  had  come  off  bitterly  
cold  almost at once), carrying a
cardboard carton, they would have thought nothing of it.

The  Engstroms,  a  block  over  and  almost  directly  behind  the  
Hockstetter  home,  lost  their
cocker  pup  about  ten  days  before  Thanksgiving.  Other  families  lost  
dogs  and  cats  over  the
next  six  or  eight  months,  and  Patrick  of  course  had  taken  them  all, 
 not  to  mention  a  dozen
unremarked strays from the Hell's Half-Acre area of Derry.

He  put  them  into  the  rusty  Amana  near  the  dump,  one  by  one.  Each  
time  he  brought
another   animal   down,   his   heart   thundering   in   his   chest,   his   
eyes   hot   and   watery   with
excitement,  he  would  expect  to  find  that  Mandy  Fazio   had  pulled  the 
 Amana's  latch  or
popped   the   hinges   with   his   sledgehammer.   But   Mandy   never   
touched   that   particular
refrigerator.  Perhaps  he  didn't  realize  it  was  there,  perhaps  the  
force  of  Patrick's  will  kept  him
away         . . . or perhaps some other force did that.

The  Engstroms'  cocker  lasted  the  longest.  In  spite  of  the  
single-number  cold,  it  was  still
alive  when  Patrick  came  back  of r the third time in as many days, although 
it had lost all of its
original  friskiness  (it  had  been  wagging  its  tail  and  lapping  his  
hands  frantically  when  he
originally  hauled  it  out  of  the  box  and  stuffed  it  into  the  
refrigerator).  When  he  came  back  a
day  after  putting  it  in,  the  puppy  had  damn  near  gotten  away.  
Patrick  had  to  chase  it  almost


all the way to the dump before he was able to jump it and get hold of one rear 
leg. The puppy
had  nipped  Patrick  with  its  sharp  little  teeth.  Patrick  didn't  mind.  
In spite  of  the  nips,  he  had
taken  the  cocker  back  to  the  refrigerator  and  bundled  it  back  in.  
He  had  a  hard-on when he
did it. This was not uncommon.

On  the  second  day  the  puppy  had  tried  to  get  out  again,  but  it  
moved  much  too  slowly.
Patrick  shoved  it  back  in,  slammed  the  Amana's  rusty  door,  and  
leaned  against  it.  He  could
hear  the  puppy  scratching  against  the  door.  He  could  hear  its  
muffled  whines.  'Good  dog,'
said  Patrick  Hockstetter.  His  eyes  were  closed  and  he  was  breathing  
fast.  'That's  a  good  dog.'
On  the  third  day  the  puppy  could  only  roll  its  eyes  toward  
Patrick's  face  when  the  door
opened.  Its  sides  were  heaving  rapidly  and  shallowly.  When  Patrick  
returned  the  next  day,  the
cocker  was  dead  with  a  cake  of  foam  frozen  around  its  mouth  and  
muzzle. This made Patrick
think  of  coconut  Popsicles,  and  he  laughed  quite  hard  as  he  hauled  
the  frozen  corpse  from  his
killing-bottle and threw it in the bushes.

The  supply  of  victims  (which  Patrick  thought  of,  when  he  thought  of  
them  at  all,  as  'test
animals')  had  been  thin  this  summer.  Questions  of  reality  aside,  his  
sense  of  self-preservation
was  well  developed,  his  intuition  exquisite.  He  suspected  he  was  
suspected.  By  whom  he  was
not  sure:  Mr  Engstrom?  Perhaps.  Mr  Engstrom  had  turned  around  and  
given  Patrick a long
speculative  look  in  the  A&P  one  day  this  spring.  Mr  Engstrom  had  
been  buying  cigarettes
and  Patrick  had  been  sent  for  bread.  Mrs Josephs? Maybe. She sat in her 
parlor window with
a  telescope  sometimes  and  was,  according  to  Mrs  Hockstetter,  a  'nosy  
parker.'  Mr  Jacubois,
who  had  an  ASPCA  sticker  on  the  back  bumper  of  his  car?  Mr  Nell?  
Someone  else?  Patrick
didn't  know  for  sure,  but  his  intuition  told  him  he  was  suspected,  
and  he  never  argued  with
his  intuition.  He  had  taken  a  few  wandering  animals  from  among  the  
rotted  tenements  in  the
Half-Acre, picking only those that looked thin or diseased, but that was all.

He  discovered,  however,  that  the  refrigerator  near  the  dump  had  
gotten  an  oddly  powerful
hold  over  him.  He  began  to  draw  pictures  of  it  in  school  when  he  
was  bored.  He  sometimes
dreamed  of  it  at  night,  and  in  his  dreams  the  Amana  was  perhaps  
seventy  feet  tall,  a  whited
sepulchre,  a  ponderous  crypt  iced  in  chilly  moonlight.  In  these  
dreams  the  giant  door  would
swing open and  he  would  see  huge eyes staring out at him. He would awake in 
a cold sweat,
but he found he could not give up the joys of the refrigerator entirely.

Today  he  had  finally  found  out  who  had  suspected.  Bowers.  Knowing  
that  Henry  Bowers
held  the  secret  of  his  killing-bottle  in  his  hands  left  Patrick  as  
close  to  panic  as  he  was  ever
apt  to  get.  This  was  not  very  close  at  all,  in  truth,  but  he  
still  found  this  —  not fear exactly,
but  mental  unrest   —  oppressive  and  unpleasant.  Henry  knew.  Knew  that 
 Patrick  sometimes
broke the rules.

His  latest  victim  had  been  a  pigeon  he  discovered  on  Jackson  Street  
two  days  ago.  The
pigeon  had  been  struck  by  a  car  and  couldn't  fly.  Patrick  went  
home,  got  his  box  out  of  the
garage,  and  put  the  pigeon  inside.  The  pigeon  pecked  the  back  of 
Patrick's hand several times,
leaving  shallow,  bloody  digs.  Patrick  didn't  mind.  When  he  checked  
the  refrigerator  the  next
day,  the  pigeon  had  been  quite  dead,  but  Patrick  hadn't  removed  the  
corpse  then.  Now,
following  Henry's  threat  to  tell,  Patrick  decided  he  better  get  rid  
of  the  pigeon's  body  right
away.  Perhaps  he  would  even  get  a  bucket  of  water  and  some  rags  
and  scrub  out  the  interior
of  the  refrigerator.  It  didn't  smell  very  good.  If  Henry  told  and  
Mr  Nell  came  down  to  check,
he might be able to tell that something — several somethings, in fact — had 
died in there.

If  he  tells,   Patrick  thought,  standing  in  the  grove  of  pines  and  
looking  at  the  rusty  Amana,
I'll  tell that he broke Eddie Kaspbrak's arm.  Of  course  they  probably  
knew  that  already,  but
they  couldn't  prove  anything  because  all  of  them  said  they  had  been  
playing  out  at  Henry's
house that day and Henry's crazy father had backed them up. But if he tells, 
I'll tell. Tit for tat.

Never  mind  that  now.  What  he  had  to  do  now  was  get  rid  of the 
bird. He would leave the

refrigerator door open and then come back with the rags and the water and clean 
it up. Good.


Patrick opened the refrigerator door on his own death.

At  first  he  was  simply  puzzled,  unable  to  cope  in  any  way  with  
what  he  was  seeing.  It
meant  nothing  to  him  at  all.  It  had  no  context.  Patrick  merely  
stared,  his  head  cocked  to  one
side, his eyes wide.

The  pigeon  was  nothing  but  a  skeleton  surrounded  by  a  ragged  fall  
of  feathers.  There  was
no  flesh  left  on  its  body  at  all.  And  around  it,  stuck  on  the  
refrigerator's  inner  walls,  hanging
from  the  underside  of  the  freezer  compartment,  dangling  from  the  wire 
 shelves,  were  dozens
of   flesh-colored  objects  that  looked  like  big  macaroni  shells.  
Patrick  saw  that  they  were
moving slightly, fluttering, as if in a breeze. Except there was no breeze. He 
frowned.

Suddenly   one   of   the   shell-like  things  unfurled  insectile  wings.  
Before  Patrick  could  do
more   than   register   the   fact,   it   had   flown   across   the   space  
 between   the   refrigerator   and
Patrick's  left  arm.  It  struck  with  a  smacking  sound.  There  was  an  
instant  of  heat.  It  faded  and
Patrick's  arm  felt  just  like  always  again  .  .  .  but  the  shell-like 
creature's pale flesh turned first
pink, and then, with shocking suddenness, rose-red.

Although  Patrick  was  afraid  of  almost  nothing  in  the  commonly  
understood  sense  of  the
word  (it's  hard  to  be  afraid  of  things  that  aren't  'real'),  there  
was  at  least  one  thing  that  filled
him  with  wretched  loathing.  He  had  come  out  of  Brewster  Lake  one  
warm August day when
he  was  seven  to  discover  four  or  five  leeches  clinging  to  his  
stomach  and  legs.  He  had
screamed himself hoarse until his father had pulled them off.

Now,  in  a  deadly  burst  of  inspiration,  he  realized  that  this  was  
some  weird  kind  of  flying
leech. They had infested his refrigerator.

Patrick  began  to  scream  and  beat  at  the  thing  on  his  arm.  It  had  
swelled  to  nearly  the  size

of  a  tennis  ball.  At  the  third  blow  it  broke  open  with  a  sickening 
squtt  sound. Blood  — his
blood  —  sprayed  his  arm  from  elbow  to  wrist,  but  the  thing's  
jellylike  eyeless  head  held  on.
In  a  way,  it  was  like  a  bird's  narrow  head,  ending  in  a  beaklike  
structure,  but  this  beak  was
not  flat  or  pointed;  it  was  tubular  and  blunt,  like  the  proboscis  
of  a  mosquito.  This  proboscis
was buried in Patrick's arm.

Still  screaming,  he  pinched  the  splattered  creature  between  his  
fingers  and  pulled  it  off.
The  proboscis  came  out  cleanly,  followed  by  a  watery  flow  of  blood  
mixed  with  some
yellowish-white liquid like pus. It had made a painless dime-sized hole in his 
arm.

And  the  creature,  although  exploded,  was  still  twisting  and  moving  
and  seeking  in  his
fingers.

Patrick  threw  it  away,  turned  .  .  .  and  more  of  them  flew  out  of  
the  refrigerator,  lighting  on
him even as he  groped  for  the  Amana's  handle.  They  landed  on  his  
hands,  his  arms,  his  neck.
One  touched  down  on  his  forehead.  When  Patrick  raised  his  hand  to  
pick  it  off,  he  saw  four
others on his hand, trembling minutely, turning first pink and then red.

There  was  no  pain  .  .  .  but  there  was  a hideous   draining  
sensation. Screaming, whirling,
beating   at   his   head   and   neck   with   his   leech-encrusted   hands,  
 Patrick   Hockstetter's   mind
yammered: It isn't real, it's just a bad dream, don't worry, it's not real, 
nothing is real —

But  the  blood  pouring  from  the  smashed  leeches  seemed  real  enough,  
the  sound  of  their
buzzing wings seemed real enough . . . and his own terror seemed real enough.

One  of  them  fell  down  inside  his  shirt  and  settled  on  his  chest.  
While  he  was  beating

frantically  at  it  and  watching  the  bloodstain  spread  above  the  place  
where  it  had  taken  its
hold, another settled on his right eye. Patrick closed it, but that did no 
good; he felt a brief hot
flare  as  the  thing's  sucker  poked  through  his  eyelid  and  began  to  
suck  the  fluid  out  of  his
eyeball. Patrick felt his eye collapse in its socket and he screamed again. A 
leech flew into his
mouth when he did and roosted on his tongue.

It was all almost painless.

Patrick  went  staggering  and  flapping  up  ht e  path  toward  the  junked  
cars.  Parasites  hung  all

over  him.  Some  of  them  drank  to  capacity  and  then  burst  like  
balloons;  when  this  happened


to  the  bigger  ones,  they  drenched  Patrick  with  almost  half  a  pint  
of  his  own  hot  blood.  He
could  feel  the  leech  inside  his  mouth  swelling  up  and  he  opened  his 
 jaws  because  the  only
coherent thought he had left was that it must not burst in there; it must not, 
must not.

But  it  did.  Patrick  ejected  a  huge  spray  of  blood  and  parasite-flesh 
like vomit. He fell down
in  the  gravelly  dirt  and  began  to  roll  over  and  over,  still  
screaming.  Little  by  little  the  sound
of his own screams began to seem faint, faraway.

Just  before  he  passed  out,  he  saw  a  figure  step  from  behind  the  
last  of  the  junked  cars.  At
first  Patrick  thought  he  was  a  guy,  Mandy  Fazio  perhaps,  and  he  
would  be  saved.  But  as  the
figure  drew  closer,  he  saw  its  face  was  running  like  wax.  Sometimes  
it  began  to  harden  and
look  like  something  —  or  someone   —  and  then  it  would  start  to  run 
 again,  as  if  it  couldn't
make up its mind who or what it wanted to be.

'Hello  and  goodbye,'  a  bubbling  voice  said  from  inside  the  running  
tallow  of  its  features,
and  Patrick  tried  to  scream  again.  He  didn't  want  to  die;  as  the  
only  'real'  person,  he  wasn't
supposed to die. If he did, everyone else in the world would die with him.

The  manshape  laid  hold  of  his  leech-encrusted  arms  and  began  to  drag 
 him  away  toward
the  Barrens.  His  bloodstained  book-carrier  bumped  and  thumped  along  
beside  him,  its  strap
still twisted about his neck. Patrick, still trying to scream, lost 
consciousness.

He  awoke  only  once:  when,  in  some  dark,  smelly,  drippy  hell  where  
no  light  shone,  no
light at all, It began to feed.

6

At  first  Beverly  was  not  entirely  sure  what  she  was  seeing  or  what  
was  happening  .  .  .  only
that  Patrick  Hockstetter  had  begun  to  thrash  and  dance  and  scream.  
She  got  up  warily,
holding  the  slingshot  in  one  hand  and  two  of  the  ball-bearings  in  
the  other.  She  could  hear
Patrick   blundering   off   down   the   path,   still   yelling   his  head  
off.  In  that  moment,  Beverly
looked  every  inch  the  lovely  woman  she  was  going  to  become,  and  if  
Ben  Hanscom  had  been
around to see her just then, his heart might not have been able to stand it.

She  was  standing  fully  upright,  her  head  cocked  to  the  left,  her  
eyes  wide,  her  hair  done  in
braids that had been tied off with two small red velvet bows which she had 
bought in Dahlie's
for  a  dime.  Her  posture  was  one  of  total  attention  and  
concentration;  it  was  feline,  lynxlike.
She  had  shifted  forward  on her left foot, her body half-turned as if to go 
after Patrick, and the
legs  of  her  faded  shorts  had  pulled  up  enough  to  show  the  edging  
on  her  yellow  cotton
panties.  Below  them,  her  legs  were  already  smoothly  muscled,  beautiful 
 in  spite  of  the  scabs,
bruises, and smutches of dirt.

It's a trick. He saw you and he knows he probably can't catch you in a fair 
chase, so he's
trying to get you to come out. Don't go, Bevvie.'

But  another  part  of  her  thought  there  was  too  much  pain  and  fear  
in  those  screams. She

wished  she  had  seen  whatever  had  happened  to  Patrick  —  if  anything  
had  —  more clearly.
She  wished  more  than  anything  else  that  she  had  come  into  the  
Barrens  a  different  way  and
missed the whole crazy shenanigans.

Patrick's  screams  stopped.  A  moment  later  Beverly  heard  someone  speak  
— but she knew
that  had  to  be  her  imagination.  She  heard  her  father  say,  'Hello  
and  goodbye.'  Her  father
wasn't  even  in  Derry  that  day:  he  had  set  off  for  Brunswick  at  
eight  o'clock.  He  and  Joe
Tammerly  were  going  to  pick  up  a  Chevy  truck  in  Brunswick.  She  
shook  her  head  as  if  to
clear      it. The voice didn't speak again. Her imagination, obviously.

She  walked  out  of  the  bushes  to  the  path,  ready  to  run  the  instant 
 she  saw  Patrick  charging
at  her,  her  reactions  on  triggers  as  delicate  as  a  cat's  whiskers.  
She  looked  down  at  the  path
and her eyes widened. There was blood here. Quite a lot of it.


Fake blood, her mind insisted. You can buy a bottle of it at Dahlie's for 
forty-nine cents. Be
careful, Bevvie!

She  knelt  and  quickly  touched  the  blood  with  her  fingers.  She  looked 
 at  them  closely.  It
wasn't fake blood.

There  was  a  flash  of  heat  in  her  left  arm,  just  below  the  elbow.  
She  looked  down  and  saw
something  that  she  first  thought  was  some  kind  of  burr.  No  —  not  a 
 burr.  Burrs  didn't  twitch
and  flutter.  This  thing  was  alive.  A  moment  after  that  she  realized  
it  was  biting  her.  She
struck it hard with the back of her right hand and it spattered, spraying 
blood. She backed up
a step, getting ready to scream now that it was over . . . and then she saw 
that it wasn't over at
all. The thing's featureless head was still on her arm, its snout buried in her 
flesh.

With a shrill cry of disgust and fear, she picked it off and saw its proboscis 
come out of her
arm like  a  small  dagger,  dripping  with  blood.  She  understood  the  
blood  on  the  path  now,  oh
yes, and her eyes went to the refrigerator.

The  door  had  swung  closed  and  latched  again,  but  a  number  of  the  
parasites  had  been  left
outside  and  were  crawling  sluggishly  over  the  rusty-white  porcelain.  
As  Beverly  looked,  one
of them unfurled its membranous fly-like wings and buzzed toward her.

She   acted   without   thinking,   loading   one   of   the   steel   
ball-bearings  into  the  cup  of  the
Bullseye  and  pulling  the  sling  back.  As the  muscles  of  her  left  arm  
flexed  smoothly,  she  saw
loose   blood   squirt   from   the   hole   the   thing   had   made   in   
her   arm.   She   let   fly   anyway,
unconsciously leading the flying thing.

Shit!  Missed!  she  thought  as  the  Bullseye  snapped  and  the  
ball-bearing  flew,  a  glittering
chunk of light in the hazy sun. And she would later tell the other Losers that 
she  knew  she had
missed it, the same way a bowler knows he has missed the strike as soon as a 
bad ball leaves
his  hand.  But  then  she  saw  the  ball-bearing  curve.  It  happened  in  a 
 split-second,  but  the
impression  was  very  clear:  it  had   curved.  It  struck  the  flying  
thing  and  splattered  it  to  mush.
There  was a shower of yellowish droplets which pattered on the path.

Beverly  backed  up  slowly  at  first,  her  eyes  huge,  her  lips  
trembling,  her  face  a  shocked
grayish-white.  Her  gaze  was  pinned  to  the  front  of  the  discarded  
refrigerator,  waiting  to  see  if
any  of  the  other  things  would  smell  or  sense  her.  But  the  parasites 
 only  crawled  slowly  back
and forth, like autumn flies drugged with the cold.

At last she turned and ran.

Panic  beat  darkly  against  her  thoughts,  but  she  would  not  give  in  
to  it  entirely.  She  held  the
Bullseye  in  her  left  hand  and  looked  back  over  her  shoulder  from  
time  to  time.  There  was  still
blood  dappled  brightly  on  the  path  and  on  the  leaves  of  some  of  
the  bushes  bordering  it,  as  if
Patrick had woven from side to side as he ran.

Beverly  burst  out  into  the  area  of  the  junked  cars  again.  Ahead  of  
her  there  was  a  bigger
splash  of  blood,  just  beginning  to  soak  into  the  gravelly  earth.  The 
 ground  looked  disturbed,
darker  streaks  of  earth  lined  into  the  powdery-white  surface.  As  if  
there  had  been  a  struggle
there. Two grooves, about two and a half feet apart, led away from this spot.

Beverly  halted,  panting.  She  looked  at  her  arm  and  was  relieved  to  
see  that  the  flow  of
blood   was   finally   slowing,   although   her   lower   forearm   and   the 
  palm   of   her   hand   were
streaked  and  tacky  with  it.  The  pain  had  begun  now,  a  low  steady  
throb.  It  felt  the  way  her
mouth felt about an hour after the dentist's, when the novocaine began to wear 
off.

She  looked  behind  again,  saw  nothing,  then  looked  back  at  those  
grooves  leading  away
from the junked cars, away from the dump, and into the Barrens.

Those things were in the refrigerator. They got all over him — sure they did, 
look at all the

blood. He got this far, and then
(hello and goodbye)

something else happened. What?


She was terribly afraid she knew. The leeches were a part of It, and they had 
driven Patrick
into  another  part  of  It  much  as  a  panic-maddened steer is driven down 
the chute and into the
slaughtering-pen.

Get out of here! Get out, Bevvie!

Instead    she    followed    the    grooves    in    the    earth,    holding  
  the    Bullseye    tightly
in her sweating hand.

At least get the others!

I will . . . in a little while.

She  walked  on,  following  the  grooves  as  the  ground  sloped  down  and  
became  softer.  She
followed   them   into   heavy   foliage   again.   Somewhere   a   cicada   
burred   loudly   and   then
unwound into  silence.  Mosquitoes  lighted  on  her  blood-streaked arm. She 
waved them away.
Her teeth were clenched on her lower lip.

There was something lying on the ground ahead. She picked it up and looked at 
it. It was a
handmade  wallet,  the  sort  of  thing  a  kid  might  make  as  a  crafts  
project  at  Community  House.
Except it was obvious to Bev that the kid who made this hadn't been much of a 
craftsman; the
wide  plastic  stitching  was  already  coming  unravelled  and  the  bill  
compartment  flapped  like  a
loose  mouth.  She  found  a  quarter  in  the  change  compartment.  The  only 
 other  thing  in  the
wallet  was  a  library  card,  made  out  in  the  name  of  Patrick  
Hockstetter.  She  tossed  the  wallet
aside, library card and all. She wiped her fingers on her shorts.

Fifty  feet  farther  on  she  found  a  sneaker.  The  underbrush  was  now  
too  dense for her to be
able  to  follow  the  grooves  in  the  earth,  but  you  didn't  have  to  be 
 the  Pathfinder  to  follow  the
splashes and drips of blood on the bushes.

The trail wound down through a steep brake. Bev  lost her footing once, slid, 
and was raked
by  thorns.  Fresh  lines  of  blood  appeared  on  her  upper  thigh.  She  
was  breathing  fast  now,  her
hair  sweaty  and  matted  to  her  skull.  The  spots  of  blood  led  out  
onto  one  of  the  faint  paths
through the Barrens. The Kenduskeag was nearby.

Patrick's other sneaker, its laces bloody, lay marooned on the path.

She  approached  the  river  with  the  Bullseye's  sling  half-drawn.  The  
grooves  in  the  earth  had
reappeared. They were shallower now — that's because he lost his sneakers, she 
thought.

She came around a final bend and faced the river. The grooves went down the 
bank and led
ultimately  to  one  of  those  concrete  cylinders  —  one  of  the  
pumping-stations.  There  they
stopped. The iron cover capping the top of this cylinder was a little ajar.

As  she  stood  above  it,  looking  down,  a  thick  and  monstrous  chuckle  
suddenly  issued  from
beneath.

It  was  too  much.  The  panic  which  had  threatened  now  descended.  
Beverly  turned  and  fled
toward   the   clearing   and   clubhouse,   her   bloody  left  arm  up  to  
shield  her  face  from  the
branches which whipped and slapped her.

Sometimes I worry too, Daddy, she thought wildly. Sometimes I worry a LOT.

7

Four  hours  later  all  of  the  Losers  except  Eddie  crouched  in  the  
bushes  near  the  spot  where
Beverly  had  hidden  and  watched  Patrick  Hockstetter  go  to  the  
refrigerator  and  open  it.  The
sky  overhead  had  darkened  with  thunder-heads, and the smell of rain was in 
the air again. Bill
was  holding  the  end  of  a  long  length  of  clothesline  in  his  hands.  
The six of them had pooled
their  available  cash  and  bought  the  line  and  a  Johnson's  first-aid  
kit  for  Beverly.  Bill  had
carefully affixed a gauze pad over the bloody hole in her arm.

'T-Tell  your  puh-puh-harents  you  g-got  a  scruh-hape  when  you  were  
skuh-skuh-skating,'
Bill said.


'My skates!' Beverly cried, dismayed. She had forgotten all about them.

'There,'  Ben  said,  and  pointed.  They  were  lying  in  a  heap  not  far  
away,  and  she  went  to
retrieve  them  before  Ben  or  Bill  or  any  of  the  others  could  offer.  
She  remembered  now  that
she had put them aside before urinating. She didn't want any of the others over 
there.

Bill  himself  had  tied  one  end  of  the  clothesline  to  the  handle  of  
the  Amana  refrigerator,
although  they  had  all  cautiously  approached  it  together,  ready  to  
bolt  at  the  first  sign  of
movement.  Bev  had  offered  to  give  the  Bullseye  back  to  Bill;  he  had 
 insisted  she  keep  it.  As
it     turned out, nothing had moved.

Although  the  area  on  the  path  in  front  of  the  refrigerator  was  
splattered  with  blood,  the

parasites were gone. Perhaps they had flown away.

'You could bring Chief Borton and Mr Nell and a hundred other cops down here 
and it still
wouldn't matter,' Stan Uris said bitterly.

'Nope. They wouldn't see a frockin thing,' Richie agreed. 'How's your arm, 
Bev?'

'Hurts.'  She  paused,  looking  from  Bill  to  Richie  and  back  to  Bill  
again.  'Would  my  mom
and dad see the hole that thing made in my arm?'

'I  d-d-don't  th-think  s-s-so,' Bill said. 'Get reh-ready to ruh-ruh-run. I'm 
gonna t-t-t-tie it uh-
uh-on.'

He  looped  the  cod  of  the  clothesline  around  the  refrigerator's  
rust-flecked  chrome  handle,
working  with  the  care  of  a  man  defusing  a  live  bomb.  He  tied  a  
granny-knot and then stepped
back, paying out the clothesline.

He  grinned  a  small  shaky  grin  at  the  others  when  they  had  made  
some  distance.  'Whooo,'
he said. 'G-Glad that's oh-over.'

Now, a safe (they hoped) distance from the refrigerator, Bill told them again 
to get ready to
run.  Thunder  boomed  directly  overhead  and  they  all  jumped.  The  first  
scattered  drops  began
to fall.

Bill  jerked  the  clothesline  as  hard  as  he  could.  His  granny-knot  
popped  off  the  handle,  but
not  before  it  had  pulled  the  refrigerator  door  open  again.  An  
avalanche  of  orange  pompoms
fell out, and Stan Uris uttered a painful groan. The others only stared, 
open-mouthed.

The  rain  began  to  come  harder.  Thunder  whipcracked  above  them,  making 
 them  cringe,

and  purplish-blue  lightning  flared  as  the  refrigerator  door  swung  all  
the  way  open.  Richie  saw
it  first  and  screamed,  a  high,  hurt  sound.  Bill  uttered  some  sort  
of  angry,  frightened  cry.  The
others were silent.

Written on the inside of the door, written in drying blood, were these words:

Hail  mixed  with  the  driving  rain.  The  refrigerator  door  shuddered  
back  and  forth  in  the
rising  wind,  the  letters  painted  there  beginning  to  drip  and  run  
now,  taking  on  the  draggling
ominous look of a horror-movie poster.

Bev  was  not  aware  that  Bill  had  gotten  up  until  she  saw  him  
advancing  across  the  path
toward   the   refrigerator.   He   was   shaking   both   fists.   Water   
streamed   down   his   face   and
plastered his shirt to his back.

'W-We're  going  to  k-k-kill you!'   Bill  screamed.  Thunder  whacked  and  
cracked.  Lightning
flashed  so  brightly  that  she  could  smell  it,  and  not  far  away  there 
 was  a  splintering,  rending
sound as a tree fell.


'Bill,  come  back!'  Richie  was  yelling.  'Come  back,  man!'  He  started  
to  get  up and Ben
hauled him back down again.

'You  killed  my  brother  George!  You  son  of  a  bitch!  You  bastard! You 
whoremaster! Let's
see you now! Let's see you now!'

Hail  came  in  a  spate,  stinging  them  even  through  the  screening  
bushes.  Beverly  held  her
arm up to protect her face. She could see red welts on Ben's streaming cheeks.

'Bill,  come  back!'  she  screamed  despairingly,  and  another  thundercrack  
drowned  her  out;  it
rolled across the Barrens below the low black clouds.

'Let's see you come out now, you fucker!'

Bill  kicked  wildly  at  the  heap  of  pompoms  that  had  spilled  out  of  
the  refrigerator.  He
turned away and began to walk back toward them, his head down. He seemed not to 
feel the
hail, although it now covered the ground like snow.

He blundered into the bushes, and Stan had to grab bis arm to keep him from 
going into the
prickerbushes. He was crying.

'That's okay, Bill,' Ben said, putting a clumsy arm around him.

'Yeah,'  Richie  said.  'Don't  worry.  We're  not  gonna  chicken  out.'  He  
stared  around  at  them,
his eyes looking wildly out of his wet face. 'Is there anyone here who's gonna 
chicken out?'

They shook their heads.

Bill  looked  up,  wiping  his  eyes.  They  were  all  soaked  to  the  skin  
and  looked  like  a  litter  of
pups  that  had  just  forded  a  river.  'Ih-It's scuh-scuh-hared of u-u-us, 
you know,' he said. 'I can
fuh-feel th-that. I swear to Guh-God I c-c-can.'

Bev nodded soberly. 'I think you're right.'

'H-H-Help m-m-me,' Bill said. 'P-P-Pl-Please. H-H-Help m-m-me.'

'We will,' Beverly said. She took Bill in her arms. She had not realized how 
easily her arms
would  go  around  him,  how  thin  he  was.  She  could  feel  his  heart  
racing  under  his  shut;  she
could feel it next to hers. She thought that no touch had ever seemed so sweet 
and strong.

Richie  put  his  arms  around  both  of  them  and  laid  his  head  on  
Beverly's  shoulder.  Ben did
the  same  from  the  other  side.  Stan  Uris  put  his  arms  around  Richie  
and  Ben.  Mike  hesitated,
and  then  slipped  one  arm  around  Beverly's  waist  and  the  other  over  
Bill's  shivering  shoulders.
They  stood  that  way,  hugging,  and  the  sleet  turned  back  to  driving 
pouring rain, rain so heavy
it seemed almost like a new atmosphere. The lightning walked and the thunder 
talked. No one
spoke.  Beverly's  eyes  were  tightly  shut.  They  stood  in  the  rain  in  
a  huddled  group,  hugging
each  other,  listening  to  it  hiss  down  on  the  bushes.  That  was  what  
she  remembered  best:  the
sound  of  the  rain  and  their  own  shared  silence  and  a  vague  sorrow  
that  Eddie  was  not  there
with them. She remembered those things.

She remembered feeling very young and very strong.


C H A P T E R  1 8

The Bullseye

1

'Okay, Haystack,' Richie says. 'Your turn. The redhead's smoked all of her 
cigarettes and
most of mine. The hour groweth late.'

Ben glances up at the clock. Yes, it's late: nearly midnight. Just time for one 
more story, he
thinks. One more story before twelve. Just to keep us warm. What should it be?  
But that, of
course, is only a joke, and not a very good one; there is only one story left, 
at least only one
he  remembers,  and  that  is  the  story  of  the  silver  slugs  —  how  they 
 were  made  in  Zack
Denbrough's workshop on the night of July 23rd and how they were used on the 
25th.

'I've got my own scars,' he says. 'Do you remember?'

Beverly  and  Eddie  shake  their  heads;  Bill  and  Richie  nod.  Mike  sits  
silent,  his  eyes
watchful in his tired face.

Ben  stands  up  and  unbuttons  the  work-shirt he is wearing, spreading it 
open. An old scar in
the  shape  of  the  letter  H  shows  there.  Its  lines  are  broken  — the 
belly was much bigger when
that scar was put there — but its shape still identifiable.

The  heavy  scar  depending  downward  from  the  cross-bar  of  the  H  is  
much  clearer.  It  looks
like a twisted white hangrope from which the noose has been cut.

Beverly's  hand  goes  to  her  mouth.  'The  werewolf!  In  that  house!  Oh  
Jesus  Christ!'  And  she

turns to the windows, as if to see it lurking outside in the darkness.

'That's  right,'  Ben  said.  'And  you  want  to  know  something  funny?  
That  scar  wasn't  there
two days ago. Henry's old calling-card was; I know, because I showed it to a 
friend of mine, a
bar-tender  named  Ricky  Lee  back  in  Hemingford  Home.  But  this  one  —  
'  He  laughs  without
much humor and begins buttoning his shirt again. This one just came back.'

'Like the ones on our hands.'

'Yeah,'  Mike  says  as  Ben  buttons  his  skin  up  again.  'The werewolf. We 
all saw It as the
werewolf that time.'

'Because that's how R-R-Richie saw Ih-It before,' Bill murmurs. 'That's it, 
isn't it?'

'Yes,' Mike says.

'We were close, weren't we?' Beverly says. Her voice is softly marvelling. 
'Close enough to
read each other's minds.'

'Ole  Big  Hairy  damn  near  had  your  guts  for  garters,  Ben,'  Richie  
says,  and  he  is  not
smiling as he says it. He pushes his mended glasses up on his nose and behind 
them his face
looks white and haggard and ghostly.

'Bill saved your bacon,' Eddie says abruptly. 'I mean, Bev saved us all, but if 
it hadn't been
for you, Bill — '

'Yes,' Ben agrees. 'You did, big Bill. I was, like, lost in the funhouse.'

Bill points briefly at the empty chair. 'I had some help from Stan Uris. And he 
paid for it.

Maybe died for it.'

Ben Hansom is shaking his head. 'Don't say that, Bill.'

'But  it's  t-true.  And  if  it's  yuh-your  f-fault, it's my fault, too, and 
e-e-everyone else's here,
because  we  went  on.  Even  after  Patrick,  and  what  was  written  on  
that  r-re-frigerator, we
went on. It would be my fault m-most of all, I guess, because I  wuh-wuh-wanted 
us to go on.


Because  of  Juh-George.  Maybe  even  because  I  thought  that  if  I  killed 
 whatever  k-killed
George, my puh-harents would have to luh-luh-luh — '

'Love you again?' Beverly asks gently.

'Yes. Of course. But I d-d-don't think it was a-a-anyone's fuh-hault, Ben. It 
was just the w-
w-way Stan was built.'

'He couldn't face it,' Eddie says. He is thinking of Mr Keene's revelation 
about his asthma

medicine, and how he could still not give it up. He is thinking that he might 
have been able to
give  up  the  habit  of  being  sick;  it  was  the  habit  of believing he 
had been unable to kick. As
things had turned out, maybe that habit  had saved his life.

'He was great that day,' Ben says. 'Stan and his birds.'

A chuckle stirs through them, and they look at the chair where Stan would have 
been in a
rightful sane world where all the good guys won all of the time. I miss him, 
Ben thinks. God,
how  I  miss  him!  He  says,  'You  remember  that  day,  Richie,  when  you  
told  him  you  heard
somewhere he killed Christ, and Stan says totally deadpan, "I think that was my 
father"?'

'I remember,' Richie says in a voice almost too low to hear. He  takes his 
handkerchief out
of his back pocket, removes his glasses, wipes his eyes, then puts his glasses 
back on. He puts
away the handkerchief and without looking up from his hands he says, 'Why don't 
you just tell
it, Ben?'

'It hurts, doesn't it?'

'Yeah,' Richie says, his voice so thick it is hard to understand him. 'Why, 
sure. It hurts.'

Ben looks around at them, then nods. 'All right, then. One more story before 
twelve. Just to
keep us warm. Bill and Richie had the idea of the bullets — '

'No,' Richie demurs. 'Bill thought of it first, and he got nervous first.'
'I just started to wuh-wuh-worry — '

'Doesn't really matter, I guess,' Ben says. 'The three of us spent some heavy 
library time
that July. We were trying to find out how to make silver bullets. I had the 
silver; four silver
dollars that were my father's. Then Bill got nervous, thinking about what kind 
of shape we'd
be   in if we had a misfire with some kind of monster coming down our throats. 
And when we
saw  how  good  Beverly was with that slingshot of his, we ended up using one 
of my silver
dollars to make slugs instead. We got the stuff together and all of us we went 
down to Bill's
place. Eddie, you were there — '

'I  told  my  mother  we  were  going  to  play  Monopoly,'  Eddie  says.  'My  
arm  was  really
hurting, but I had to walk. That's how pissed she was at me. And every time I 
heard someone
behind me on the sidewalk I'd whip around, thinking it was Bowers. It didn't 
help the pain.'

Bill grins. 'And what we did was stand around and watch Ben make the ammo. I 
think Ben
r-really could have made sil-silver bullets.'

'Oh, I'm not so sure of that,' Ben says, although he still is. He remembers how 
the dusk was
drawing down outside (Mr Denbrough had promised them all rides home), the sound 
of the
crickets in the grass, the first lightning-bugs blinking outside the windows. 
Bill had carefully
set up the Monopoly board in the dining room, making it look as if the game had 
been going
on for an hour or more.

He  remembers  that,  and  the  clean  pool  of  yellow  light  falling  on  
Zack's  worktable.  He

remembers Bill saying, 'We gotta be c-c-

2

careful. I don't want to leave a muh-muh-mess. My dad'll be — '

He spat out a number of 'p's, and finally managed to say 'pissed off.'


Richie  made  a  burlesque  of  wiping  his  cheek.  'Do  you  serve  towels  
with  your  showers,
Stuttering Bill?'

Bill made as if to hit him. Richie cowered, shrieking in his Pickaninny Voice.

Ben  took  very  little  notice  of  them.  He  watched  Bill  lay  out  the  
implements and tools one
by  one  in  the  light.  Part  of  his  mind  was  wishing  that  someday'  he 
 might  have  such  a  nice
worktable  as  this  himself.  Most  of  it  was  centered  directly  on  the  
job  ahead.  Hot  as  difficult
as  making  silver  bullets  would  have  been,  but  he  would  still  be  
careful.  There  was  no  excuse
for  sloppy  workmanship.  This  was  not  something  he  had  been  taught  or 
 told,  just  something
he knew.

Bill  had  insisted  that  Ben  make  the  slugs,  just  as  he  continued  to  
insist  that  Beverly  would
be  the  one  carrying  the  Bullseye.  These  things  could  have  and  had  
been  discussed,  but  it  was
only  twenty-seven  years  later,  telling  the  story,  that  Ben  realized  
no  one  had  even  suggested
that  a  silver  bullet  or  slug  might  not  stop  a  monster  —  they had 
the weight of what   seemed
like a thousand horror movies on their side.

'Okay,' Ben said. He cracked his knuckles and then looked at Bill. 'You got the 
molds?'

'Oh!'  Bill  jumped  a  little.  'H-H-Here.'  He  reached  into  his  pants  
pocket  and  brought  out  his
handkerchief.  He  put  it  on  the  workbench  and  unfolded  it.  There  were 
 two  dull  steel  balls
inside, each with a small hole in it. They were bearing molds.

After  deciding  on  slugs  instead  of  bullets,  Bill  and  Richie  had  gone 
 back  to  the  library  and
had  researched  how  bearings  were  made.  'You  boys  are  so  busy,'  Mrs  
Starrett  had  said.
'Bullets one week and bearings the next! And it's summer vacation, too!'

'We like to stay sharp,' Richie said. 'Right, Bill?'

'Ruh-Ruh-Right.'

It  turned  out  that  making  bearings  was  a  cinch,  once  you  had  the  
molds.  The  only  real
question  was  where  to  get  them.  A  couple  of  discreet  questions  to  
Zack  Denbrough  had  taken
care  of  that  .  .  .  and  none  of  the  Losers  were  too  surprised  to  
find  that  the  only  machine-shop
in  Derry  where  such  molds  might  be  obtained  was  Kitchener  Precision  
Tool  &  Die.  The
Kitchener  who  owned  and  ran  it  was  a  great-great-grandnephew  of  the  
brothers  who  had
owned the Kitchener Ironworks.

Bill  and  Richie  had  gone  over  together  with  all  the  cash  the  Losers 
 had been able to raise
on  short  notice  —  ten  dollars  and  fifty-nine cents  —  in  Bill's  
pocket.  When  Bill  asked  how
much  a  couple  of  two-inch  bearing  molds  might  cost,  Carl  Kitchener  — 
 who  looked  like  a
veteran  boozehound  and  smelled  like  an  old  horse-blanket  —  asked  what 
 a  couple  of  kids
wanted  with  bearing  molds.  Richie  let  Bill  speak,  knowing  things  
would  probably  go  easier
that way  —  children  made  fun  of  Bill's  stutter;  adults  were  
embarrassed  by  it.  Sometimes  this
was surprisingly helpful.

Bill  got  halfway  through  the  explanation  he  and  Richie  had  worked  
out  on  the  way  over  —
something  about  a  model  windmill  for  next  year's  science  project   —  
when  Kitchener  waved
for him to shut up and quoted them the unbelievable price of fifty cents per 
mold.

Hardly able to believe their good fortune, Bill forked over a single dollar 
bill.

'Don't  expect  me  to  give  you  a  bag,'  Carl  Kitchener  said,  eying  
them  with  the  bloodshot
contempt  of  a  man  who  believes  he  has  seen  everything  the  world  
holds,  most  of  it  twice.
'You don't get no bag unless you spend at least five bucks.'

That's o-o-okay, suh-sir,' Bill said.

'And don't hang around out front,' Kitchener said. 'You both need haircuts.'

Outside   Bill   said:   'Y-Y-You   ever   nuh-hotice,  Ruh-Richie,   how   
guh-guh-grownups   w-w-
won't  sell  you  a-a-anything  except  c-candy  or  cuh-cuh-homic  books  or  
m-maybe  movie  t-t-
tickets without first they w-want to know what y-you want it f-for?'

'Sure,' Richie said.

'W-Why? Why ih-is that?'


'Because they think we're dangerous.'
'Y-Yeah? You thuh-thuh-think s-so?'

'Yeah,'  Richie  said,  and  then  giggled.  'Let's  hang  around  out  front,  
want  to?  We'll  put  up
our collars and sneer at people and let our hair grow.'

'Fuck y-you,' Bill said.

3

'Okay,' Ben said, looking at the molds carefully and then putting them down. 
'Good. Now — '

They  gave  him  a  little  more  room,  looking  at  him  hopefully,  the  way 
 a  man  with  engine
trouble   who   knows   nothing   about   cars   will   look   at   a   
mechanic.   Ben   didn't   notice   their
expressions. He was concentrating on the job.

'Gimme that shell,' he said, 'and the blowtorch.'

Bill  handed  a  cut-down  mortar  shell  to  him.  It  was  a  war  souvenir.  
Zack  had  picked  it  up

five  days  after  he  and  the  rest  of  General  Patton's  army  had  
crossed  ht e  river  into  Germany.

There  had  been  a  time,  when  Bill  was  very  young  and  George  was  
still  in  diapers,  that  his
father  had  used  it  as  an  ashtray.  Later  he  had  quit  smoking,  and  
the  mortar  shell  had
disappeared. Bill had found it in the back of the garage just a week ago.

Ben  put  the  mortar  shell  into  Zack's  vise,  tightened  it,  and  then  
took  the  blowtorch  from
Beverly.  He  reached  into  his  pocket,  brought  out  a  silver  dollar,  
and  dropped  it  into  the
makeshift crucible. It made a hollow sound.

'Your father gave you that, didn't he?' Beverly asked.
'Yes,' Ben said, 'but I don't remember him very well.'
'Are you sure you want to do this?'

He looked at her and smiled. 'Yes,' he said.

She  smiled  back.  It  was  enough  for  Ben.  If  she  had  smiled  at  him  
twice,  he  would  gladly
have  made  enough  silver  bearings  to  shoot  a  platoon  of  werewolves. He 
looked hastily away.
'Okay. Here we go. No problem. Easy as pie, right?'

They nodded hesitantly.

Years later, recounting all of this, Ben would think: These days a kid could 
just run out and
buy a propane torch . . . or his dad would have one in the workshop.

There  had  been  no  such  things  in  1958,  however;  Zack  Denbrough  had  
a  tank-job, and it
made  Beverly  nervous.  Ben  could  tell  she  was  nervous,  wanted  to  tell 
 her  not  to  worry,  but
was afraid his voice would tremble.

'Don't worry,' he said to Stan, who was standing next to her.
'Huh?' Stan said, looking at him and bunking.

'Don't worry,'

'I'm not.'

'Oh. I thought you were.  And I just wanted you to know this is perfectly safe. 
 If  you were.

Worrying, I mean.'

'Are you okay, Ben?'

'Fine,' Ben muttered. 'Gimme the matches, Richie.'

Richie  gave  him  a  book  of  matches.  Ben  twisted  the  valve  on  the  
tank  and  lit  a  match
under  the  nozzle  of  the  torch.  There  was  a  flump!  and  a  bright  
blue-orange  glare.  Ben  tuned
the flame to a blue edge and began to heat the base of the mortar shell.

'You got the funnel?' he asked Bill.

'R-R-Right  here.'  Bill  handed  over  a  homemade  funnel  that  Ben  had  
made  earlier.  The  tiny
hole  at  its  base  fit  the  hole  in  the  bearing  molds  almost  exactly.  
Ben  had  done  this  without


taking  a  single  measurement.  Bill  had  been  amazed  —  almost  
flabbergasted   —  but  did  not
know how to say so without embarrassing Ben.

Absorbed  in  what  he  was  doing,  Ben  could  talk  to  Beverly  —  he  
spoke  with  the  dry
precision of a surgeon addressing a nurse.

'Bev,  you  got  the  steadiest  hands.  Suck  the  funnel  in  the  hole.  Use 
 one  of  those  gloves  so
you don't get burned.'

Bill  handed  her  one  of  his  father's  work  gloves.  Beverly  put  the  
tin  funnel  in  the  mold.  No
one  spoke.  The  hissing  of  the  blowtorch  flame  seemed  very  loud.  They 
 watched  it,  eyes
squinted almost shut.

'Wuh-wuh-wait,'  Bill  said  suddenly,  and  dashed  into  the  house.  He  
came  back  a  minute
later  with  a  pair  of  cheap  Turtle  wraparound  sunglasses  that  had  
been  languishing  in  a  kitchen
drawer for a year or more. 'Better p-put these uh-on, H-H-Haystack.'

Ben took them, grinned, and slipped them on.

'Shit, it's Fabian!' Richie said. 'Or Frankie Avalon, or one of those Bandstand 
wops.'

'Fuck  you,  Trashmouth,'  Ben  said,  but  he  started  giggling  in  spite  
of  himself.  The  idea  of
him  being  Fabian  or  someone  like  that  was  just  too  weird.  The  flame 
 wavered and he stopped
laughing; his concentration narrowed to a point again.

Two  minutes  later  he  handed  the  torch  to  Eddie,  who  held  it  
gingerly  in  his  good  hand.  'It's
ready,' he said to Bill. 'Gimme that other glove. Fast! Fast!'

Bill  gave  it  to  him.  Ben  put  it  on  and  held  the  mortar  shell  with 
 the  gloved  hand  while  he
turned the vise lever with the other.

'Hold it steady, Bev.'

'I'm ready, don't wait for me,' she rapped back at him.

Ben  tilted  the  shell  over  the  funnel.  The  others  watched  as a rivulet 
of molten silver flowed
between   the   two   receptacles.   Ben   poured   precisely;   not   a   drop 
  was   spilled.   And   for   a
moment,  he  felt  galvanized.  He  seemed  to  see  everything  magnified  
through  a  strong  white
glow.  For  that  one  moment  he  did  not  feel  like  plain  fat  old  Ben  
Hanscom,  who  wore
sweatshirts  to  disguise  his  gut  and  his  tits;  he  felt  like  Thor,  
working  thunder  and  lightning  at
the smithy of the gods.

Then the feeling was gone.

'Okay,'  he  said.  'I'm  gonna  have  to  reheat  the  silver.  Someone shove 
a nail or something up
the spout of the funnel before the goop hardens in there.'

Stan did it.

Ben clamped the mortar shell in the vise again and took the torch from Eddie.
'Okay,' he said, 'number two.'

And went back to work.

4

Ten minutes later it was done.
'Now what?' Mike asked.

'Now  we  play  Monopoly  for  an  hour,'  Ben  said,  'while  they  harden  in 
 the  molds.  Then  I
clip em open with a chisel along the cut-lines and we're done.'

Richie  looked  uneasily  at  the  cracked  face  of  his  Timex,  which  had  
taken  a  great  many
lickings and kept on ticking. 'When will your folks be back, Bill?'

'N-N-Not  until  tuh-ten  or  ten-thuh-thuh-hirty,'  Bill  said.  'It's  a  
double  f-f-f-feature  at  the
Uh-Uh-Uh — '

'Aladdin,' Stan said.

'Yeah. And they'll stop in for a slice of p-p-pizza after. They a-almost always 
d-do.'


'So we have plenty of time,' Ben said.
Bill nodded.

'Then  let's  go  in,'  Bev  said.  'I  want  to  call  home.  I  promised  I  
would.  And  don't  any  of  you
talk. He thinks I'm at Community House and that I'm getting a ride home from 
there.'

'What if he wants to come down and pick you up early?' Mike asked.
'Then,' Beverly said, 'I'm going to be in a lot of trouble.'

Ben thought:  I'd  protect  you,  Beverly.  In his mind's eye, an instant 
daydream unfolded, one
with  an  ending  so  sweet  he  shivered.  Bev's  father  started  to  give  
her  a  hard  time;  to  bawl  her
out  and  all  that  (even  in  his  daydream  he  did  not  imagine  how  bad  
all  that  could  get  with  Al
Marsh). Ben threw himself in front of her and told Marsh to lay off.

If you want trouble, fatboy, you just keep protecting my daughter.

Hanscom,  usually  a  quiet  bookish  type,  can  be  a  ravening  tiger  when  
you  get  him  mad.  He
speaks to Al Marsh with great sincerity. If you want to get to her, you'll have 
to come through
me first.

Marsh starts forward . . . and then the steely glint in Hanscom's eyes stops 
him.

You'll  be  sorry,   he  mumbles,  but  it's  clear  all  the  fight  has  gone 
 out  of  him  —  He's just a
paper tiger after all.

Somehow I doubt that,  Hanscom says with a tight Gary Cooper smile, and 
Beverly's father
slinks away.

What's  happened  to  you,  Ben?   Bev  cries,  but  her  eyes  are  shining  
and  full  of  stars.  You
looked ready to kill him!

Kill him?  Hanscom  says,  the  Gary  Cooper  smile  still  lingering  on  his  
lips.  No way, baby.

He may be a creep, but he's still your father. I might have roughed him up a 
little, but that's
only because when someone talks wrong to you I get a little hot under the 
collar. You know?

She  throws  her  arms  around  him  and  kisses  him  (on  the   lips!  on the 
 LIPS!).  I  love  you,
Ben! she sobs. He can feel her small breasts pressing firmly against his chest 
and —

He  shivered  a  little,  throwing  this  bright,  terribly  clear  picture  
off  with  an  effort.  Richie
stood  in  the  doorway,  asking  him  if  he  was  coming,  and  Ben  realized 
 he  was  all  alone  in  the
workroom.

'Yeah,' he said, starting a little. 'Sure I am.'

'You're  goin  senile,  Haystack,'  Richie  said  as  Ben  went  though  the  
door,  but  he  clapped
Ben on the shoulder. Ben grinned and hooked an elbow briefly around Richie's 
neck.

5

There  was  no  problem  with  Beverly's  dad.  He  had  come  home  late  from 
 work,  Bev's  mother
told  her  over  the  phone,  fallen  asleep  in  front  of  the  TV,  and  
waked  up  just  long  enough  to
get himself into bed.

'You got a ride home, Bevvie?'

'Yes. Bill Denbrough's dad is going to take a whole bunch of us home.'

Mrs Marsh sounded suddenly alarmed. 'You're not on a date, are you, Bevvie?'

'No,  of  course  not,'  Bev  said,  looking  through  the  arched  doorway  
between  the  darkened
hall  where  she  was  and  the  dining  room,  where  the  others  were  
sitting  down  around  the
Monopoly board.  But I sure wish I was.  'Boys, uck. But they have a sign-up 
sheet down here,
and  every  night  a  different  dad  or  mom  takes  kids  home.'  That  much, 
 at  least,  was  true.  The
rest was a lie so outrageous that she could feel herself blushing hotly in the 
dark.

'All right,' her mom said. 'I just wanted to be sure. Because if your dad 
caught you going on
dates at your age, he'd be mad.' Almost as an afterthought she added: 'I would 
be, too.'


'Yeah,  I  know,'  Bev  said,  still  looking  into  the  dining  room.  She   
did  know;  yet  here  she
was,  not  with  one  boy  but  six  of  them,  in  a  house  where the parents 
were gone. She saw Ben
looking  at  her  anxiously,  and  she  sketched  a  smiling  little  salute  
at  him.  He  blushed  but  gave
her the little salute right back.

'Are any of your girlfriends there?'
What girlfriends, Mamma?

'Um,    Patty    O'Hara's   here.   And   Ellie   Geiger,   I   think.   She's  
 playing   shuffle -board
downstairs.'  The  facility  with  which  the  lies  came  from  her  lips  
made  her  ashamed.  She
wished  she  were  talking  to  her  father;  she  would  have  been  more  
scared  but  less  ashamed.
She supposed she really wasn't a very good girl.

'I love you, Mamma,' she said.

'Same goes back to you, Bev.' Her mother paused briefly and added: 'Be careful. 
The paper
says  there  may  be  another  one.  A  boy  named  Patrick  Hockstetter.  He's 
 missing.  Did  you
know him, Bevvie?'

She closed her eyes briefly. 'No, Mom. '

'Well . . . goodbye, then.'
'Bye.'

She  joined  the  others  at  the  table  and  for  an  hour  they  played  
Monopoly.  Stan  was  the  big
winner.

'Jews  are  very  good  at  making  money,'  Stan  said,  putting  a  hotel  on 
 Atlantic  Avenue  and
two more green houses on Ventnor Avenue. 'Everybody knows that.'

'Jesus, make me Jewish,' Ben said promptly, and everyone laughed. Ben was 
almost broke.

Beverly  glanced  across  the  table  from  time  to  time  at  Bill,  noting 
his clean hands, his blue
eyes, the fine red hair. As he moved the little silver shoe he was using as a 
marker around the
board, she thought,  If  he  held  my  hand,  I  think  I'd  be  so  glad  I'd  
probably  die.  A warm light
seemed to glow briefly in her chest and she smiled secretly down at her hands.

6

The  evening's  finale  was  almost  anticlirnactic.  Ben  took  one  of  
Zack's  chisels  from  the  shelf
and  used  a  hammer  to  strike  the  molds  on  the  cut-lines. They opened 
easily. Two small silver
balls  fell  out.  In  one  they  could  faintly  see  part  of  a  date:  925. 
 In  the  other,  wavery  lines
Beverly  thought  were  the  remnants  of  Lady  Liberty's  hair.  They  looked 
 at  them  without
speaking for a moment, and then Stan picked one up.

'Pretty small,' he said.

'So  was  the  rock  in  David's  sung  when  he  went  up  against  Goliath,'  
Mike  said.  'They  look
powerful to me.'

Ben found himself nodding. They did to him, as well.

'We're all d-d-done?' Bill asked.

'All  done,'  Ben  said.  'Here.'  He  tossed  the  second  slug  to  Bill,  
who  was  so  surprised  he
almost fumbled it.

The  slugs  went  around  the  circle.  Each  of  them  looked  closely  at  
both,  marvelling  at  their
roundness,  weight,  actuality.  When  they  came  back  to  Ben,  he  held  
them  in  his  hand  and  then
looked at Bill. 'What do we do with them now?'

'G-G-Give them to B-Beverly.'
'No!'

He  looked  at  her.  His  face  was  kind  enough,  but  stern.  'B-B-Bev, 
we've been thruh-through
this a-a-already, and — '


'Ill  do  it,'  she  said.  'I'll  shoot  the  goddamned  things  when  the 
time comes,  If  it comes. I'll
probably get us all killed, but I'll do it. I don't want to take them home, 
though. One of my

(father)

parents might find them. Then I'd be in dutch.'

'Don't you have a secret hiding place?' Richie asked. 'Criminy, I got four or 
five.'

'I've got a place,' Beverly said. There was a small slit in the bottom of her 
box-spring where
she  sometimes  stashed  cigarettes,  comic  books,  and,  just  lately,  film  
and  fashion  magazines.
'But  nothing  I'd  trust  for  something  like  this.  You  keep  them,  Bill. 
 Until  it's  time,  anyway,
you keep them.'

'Okay,'  Bill  said  mildly,  and  just  then  lights  splashed  into  the  
driveway.  'Holy  cruh-crow,
they're e-e-early. L-Let's get out of h-here.'

They  were  just  sitting  down  around  the  Monopoly  board  again  when  
Sharon  Denbrough
opened the kitchen door.

Richie  rolled  his  eyes  and  mimed  wiping  sweat  from  his  forehead;  the 
 others  laughed

heartily. Richie had Gotten Off A Good One.

A moment later she came in. 'Your dad's waiting for your friends in the car, 
Bill.'
'O-O-Okay, M-Mom,' Bill said. 'W-We were juh-just f-f-finishing, a-anyway.'

'Who  won?'  Sharon  asked,  smiling  bright-eyed  at  Bill's  little  friends. 
 The  girl  was  going  to
be  very  pretty,  she  thought.  She  supposed  in  another  year  or  two  
the  children  would  have  to
be  chaperoned  if  there  were  going  to  be  girls  instead  of  just  the  
regular  gang  of  boys.  But
surely it was still too soon to worry about sex rearing its ugly head.

'St-Stan wuh-wuh-won,' Bill said. 'Juh-Juh-Jews are very g-g-good at m-making 
money.'

'Bill!' She cried, horrified and blushing . . . and then she looked around at 
them, amazed, as
they  roared  with  laughter,  Stan  included.  Amazement  turned  to  
something  like  fear  (although
she  said  nothing  of  this  to  her  husband  later,  in  bed).  There  was  
a  feeling  in  the  air,  like  static
electricity,  only  somehow  much  more  powerful,  much  more  scary.  She  
felt  that  if  she  touched
any  of  them,  she  would  receive  a  walloping  shock.  What's  happened  to 
 them?  she thought,
dismayed,  and  perhaps  she  even  opened  her  mouth  to  say  something  
like  that.  Then  Bill  was
saying  he  was  sorry  (but  still  with  that  devilish  glint  in  his  
eye),  and  Stan  was  saying  that  was
all  right,  it  was  just  a  joke  they  laid  on  him  from  time  to  time, 
 and  she  found  herself  too
confused to say anything at all.

But  she  felt  relieved  when  the  children  were  gone  and  her  own  
puzzling,  stuttering  son  had
gone to his room and turned off the light.

7

The  day  that  the  Losers'  Club  finally  met  It  in  face-to-face combat, 
the day It almost had Ben
Hanscom's  guts  for  garters,  was  July  25th,  1958.  It  was  hot  and  
muggy  and  still.  Ben
remembered  the  weather  clearly  enough;  it  had  been  the  last  day  of  
the  hot  weather.  After
that day, a long spell of cool and cloudy had come in.

They  arrived  at  29  Neibolt  Street  around  ten  that  morning,  Bill  
riding  Richie  double  on
Silver,   Ben   with   his   ample   buttocks   spilling   over   either   side 
  of   the   sagging   seat   on   his
Raleigh.  Beverly  came  down  Neibolt  Street  on  her  girl's  Schwinn, her 
red hair held back from
her  forehead  by  a  green  band.  It  streamed  out  behind  her.  Mike  came 
 by  himself,  and  about
five minutes later Stan and Eddie walked up together.

'H-H-How's your a-a-arm, Eh-Eh-Eddie?'

'Aw,  not  too  bad.  Hurts  if  I  roll  over  on  that  side  while  I'm  
sleeping.  Did  you  bring  the
stuff?'


There  was  a  canvas-wrapped  bundle  in  Silver's  bike-basket. Bill took it 
out and unwrapped
it.  He  handed  the  slingshot  to  Beverly,  who  took  it  with  a  little  
grimace  but  said  nothing.
There  was  also  a  tin  Sucrets  box  in  the  bundle.  Bill  opened  it  and 
 showed  them  the  two  silver
balls.  They  looked  at  them  silently,  gathered  close  together  on  the  
balding  lawn  on  29  Neibolt
Street  —  a  lawn  where  only  weeds  seemed  to  grow.  Bill,  Richie,  and  
Eddie  had  seen  the
house before; the others hadn't, and they looked at it curiously.

The  windows  look  tike  eyes,  Stan thought, and his hand went to the 
paperback book in his
back  pocket.  He  touched  it  for  luck.  He  carried  the  book  with  him  
almost  everywhere  — it
was M. K. Handey's Guide to North American Birds. They look like dirty blind 
eyes. It stinks,
Beverly thought. I can smell it — but not with my nose, not exactly.

Mike thought, It's like that time out where the Ironworks used to be. It has 
the same feel . .

. as if it's telling us to step on in.

This is one of Its places, all right,  Ben thought.  One of the places like the 
Morlock holes,
where It goes out and comes back in. And It knows we're out here. It's waiting 
for us to come
in.

'Yuh-yuh-you all still want to?' Bill asked.

They looked back at him, pale and solemn. No one said no. Eddie fumbled his 
aspirator out
of his pocket and took a long whooping gasp at it.

'Gimme some of that,' Richie said.

Eddie looked at him, surprised, waiting for the punchline.
Richie held out his hand. 'No fake, Jake. Can I have some?'

Eddie  shrugged  with  his  good  shoulder  —  an  oddly  disjointed  movement  
—  and  handed  it

over.  Richie  triggered  the  aspirator  and  breathed  deep.  'Needed  that,' 
 he  said,  and  handed  it
back. He was coughing a little, but his eyes were sober.

'Me too,' Stan said. 'Okay?'

So one after another they used Eddie's aspirator. When it came back to him, 
Eddie jammed
it in his back pocket, where the nozzle stuck out. They turned to look at the 
house again.

'Does anybody live on this street?' Beverly asked in a low voice.

'Not  this  end  of  it,'  Mike  said.  'Not  anymore.  I  guess  there  are  
still  bums  sometimes.  Guys
that come through on the freights.'

'They  wouldn't  see  anything,'  Stan  said.  'They'd  be  safe.  Most  of  
them,  anyway.'  He  looked

at Bill. 'Can any grownups at all see It, do you think,
Bill?'

'I don't nuh-know,' Bill said. 'There must be suh-suh-some.'

'I  wish  we  could  meet  one,'  Richie  said  glumly.  'This  really  isn't  
a  job  for  kids,  you  know
what I mean?'

Bill  knew.  Whenever  the  Hardy  Boys  got  into  trouble,  Fenton  Hardy  
was  around  to  bail
them  out.  Same  with  Rick  Brant's  dad  in  the  Rick  Brant  Science  
Adventures.  Shit,  even
Nancy  Drew  had  a  father  who  would  show  up  in  the  nick  of  time  if  
the  bad  guys  tied  her  up
and threw her into an abandoned mine or something.

'Ought  to  be  a  grownup  along,'  Richie  said,  looking  at  the  closed  
house  with  hs  peeling
paint,  its  duty  windows,  its  shadowy porch.  He  sighed  tiredly.  For  a  
moment,  Ben  felt  their
resolution falter.

Then Bill said, 'Cuh-cuh-home a-a-a-around h-here. Look at th-this.'

They  walked  around  to  the  left  side  of  the  porch,  where  the  
skirting  was  torn  off.  The
brambly,  run-to-the-wild  roses  were  still  there  .  .  .  and  those  It  
had  touched  when  It  climbed
out were still black and dead.

'It just touched them and it did that?' Beverly asked, horrified.
Bill nodded. 'Are you guh-huys s-s-sure?


For  a  moment  nobody  replied.  They  weren't  sure;  even  though  all  of  
them  knew  by  Bill's
face  that  he  would  go  on  without  them,  they  weren't  sure.  There  was 
 also  a  species  of  shame
on Bill's face. As he had told them before, George hadn't been their brother.

But  all  the  other  kids,  Ben thought.  Betty  Ripsom,  Cheryl  Lamonica,  
that  Clements  kid,
Eddie  Corcoran  (maybe),  Ronnie  Grogan  .  .  .  even  Patrick  Hockstetter. 
 It  kills  kids,
goddamit, kids!

'I'll go, Big Bill, 'he said.
'Shit, yeah,' Beverly said.

'Sure,' Richie said. 'You think we're gonna let you have all the fun, 
mushmouth?'

Bill  looked  at  them,  his  throat  working,  and  then  he  nodded.  He  
handed  the  tin  box  to
Beverly.

'Are you sure, Bill?'
'Sh-Sh-Sure.'

She  nodded,  at  once  horrified  by  the  responsibility  and  bewitched  by  
his  trust.  She  opened

the box, took out the slugs, and slipped one into the right front pocket of her 
jeans. The other
she  socketed  in  the  Bullseye's  rubber  cup,  and it was by the cup that 
she carried the slingshot.
She could feel the ball tightly enclosed in her fist, cold at first and then 
warming.

'Let's go,' she said, her voice not quite steady. 'Let's go before I chicken 
out.'

Bill nodded, then looked sharply at Eddie. 'Cuh-Can you d-d-do this, 
Eh-Eh-Eddie?'

Eddie  nodded.  'Sure  I  can.  I  was  alone  last  time.  This  time  I'm  
with  my  friends.  Right?'  He
looked at them and grinned a little. His expression was shy, fragile, and quite 
beautiful.

Richie   clapped   him   on   the   back.   'Thass   right,   senhorr.   
Anywhunn   tries   to   steal   your

assipirator, we keel heem. But we keel heem slow.'
That's terrible, Richie,' Bev said, giggling.

'Uh-Uh-under  the  p-porch,'  Bill  said.  'A-A11  of  you  b-b-behind me. Then 
into the suh-suh-
cellar.'

'If  you  go  first  and  that  thing  jumps  you,  what  do  I  do?'  Beverly  
asked.  'Shoot  through
you?'

'If y-you have to,' Bill said. 'But I suh-suh-suggest y-y-you try guh-hoing 
a-around, first.'

Richie laughed wildly at this.


'We'll  g-g-go  through  the  whole  puh-puh-place,  if  we  have
won't find be a-a-anything.'

'Do you believe that?' Mike asked.
'No,' Bill said briefly. 'It's h-h-here.'

-t to.'  He  shrugged. 'Maybe we

Ben  believed  he  was  right.  The  house  at  29  Neibolt  Street  seemed  to 
 be  encased  in  a
poisonous envelope. It could not be seen . . . but it could be felt. He licked 
his lips.

'You ruh-ruh-ready?' Bill asked them.

They all looked back at him. 'Ready, Bill,' Richie said.

'Cuh-come  on,  th-then,'  Bill  said.  'Stay  cluh-close  behind  me,  
B-Beverly.'  He  dropped  to
his knees, crawled through the blighted rosebushes and under the porch.

8

They  went  this  way:  Bill,  Beverly,  Ben,  Eddie,  Richie,  Stan,  Mike.  
The  leaves  under  the
porch  crackled  and  puffed  up  a  sour  old  smell.  Ben  wrinkled  his  
nose.  Had  he  ever  smelled
fallen  leaves  like  these?  He  thought  not.  And  then  an  unpleasant  
idea  struck  him.  They
smelled  the  way  he  imagined  a  mummy  would  smell,  just  after  its  
discoverer  had  levered
open its coffin: all dust and bitter ancient tannic acid.


Bill   had   reached   the   broken   cellar   window   and   was   looking   
into   the   cellar.   Beverly
crawled up beside him. 'You see anything?'

Bill  shook  his  head.  'But  that  d-doesn't  m-m-mean  nuh-huthin's  there.  
L-Look; there's the
c-coal-pile me and R-R-Richie used to get ow-out.'

Ben,  who  was  looking  between  them,  saw  it.  He  was  becoming  excited  
as  well  as  afraid
now,  and  he  welcomed  the  excitement,  instinctively  recognizing  the  
fact  that  it  could  be  a
tool.  Seeing  the  coal-pile  was  a  little  like  seeing  a  great  landmark 
 about  which  you  had  only
read or heard from others.

Bill  turned  around  and  slipped  lithely  through  the  window.  Beverly  
gave  Ben  the  Bullseye,

folding  his  hand  over  the  cup  and  ball  nestled  in  it.  'Give  it  to  
me  the  second  I'm  down,'  she
said. 'The second.'

'Got you.'

She slipped down as easily and lithely as Bill had before her. There was  — for 
Ben, at least

—  one  heart-stopping  instant  when  her  blouse  pulled  out  of  her  jeans 
 and  he  saw  her  flat
white belly. Then there was the thrill of her hands over his as he handed the 
slingshot down.

'Okay, I've got it. Come on.'

Ben  turned  around  himself  and  began  to  wriggle  through  the  window.  
He  should  have
forseen  what  happened  next;  it  was  really  inevitable.  He  got  stuck.  
His  fanny  bound  up
against  the  rectangular  cellar  window  and  he  couldn't  go  in  any  
further.  He  started  to  pull
himself  out  and  realized,  horrified,  that  he  could  do  it,  but  was  
very  apt  to  yank  his  pants  —
and perhaps his underpants as well  — down to his knees when he did. And there 
he would be,
with his extremely large ass practically in his beloved's face.

'Hurry up!' Eddie said.

Ben  pushed  grimly  with  both  hands.  For  a  moment  he  still  couldn't  
move,  and  then  his  butt
popped   through   the   window-hole.   His   bluejeans   dragged   painfully   
up   into   his   crotch,
squashing   his   balls.   The   top   of   the   window   rucked   his   shin  
 all   the   way   up   to   his
shoulderblades. Now his gut was stuck.

'Suck  in,  Haystack,'  Richie  said,  giggling  hysterically.  'You  better  
suck  in  or  we'll  have  to
send Mike after his dad's chainfall to pull you out again.'

'Beep-beep,  Richie,'  Ben  said  through  gritted  teeth.  He  sucked  his  
belly  in  as  much  as  he
could.  He  had  never  really  realized  just  how  big  his  stupid  stomach  
was  until  this  supremely
embarrassing moment. He moved a little further, then stopped again.

He  turned  his  head  as  far  as  he  could,  fighting  panic  and  
claustrophobia.  His  face  had  gone
a  bright  sweaty  red.  The  sour  smell  of  the  leaves  was  heavy  in  his 
 nostrils,  cloying.  'Bill!  Can
you guys pull me?'

He felt  Bill  grasp  one  of  his  ankles,  Beverly  the  other.  He  sucked  
his  belly  in  as  far  as  he
could.  A  moment  later  he  came  tumbling  through  the  window.  Bill  
grabbed  him.  Both  of
them  almost  fell  over.  Ben  couldn't  look  at  Bev.  He  had  never  in  
his  life  been  as  embarrassed
as he was at that moment.

'Y-Y-You okay, m-m-man?'
'Yeah.'

Bill  laughed  shakily.  Beverly  joined  him,  and  then  Ben  was  able  to  
laugh  a  little  too,

although   it   would   be   years   before   he   could   see   anything   
remotely   funny   in   what   had
happened.

'Hey!' Richie called down. 'Eddie needs help, okay?'

'O-O-Okay.'  Bill  and  Ben  took  up  positions  below  the  window.  Eddie  
came  through  on  his
back. Bill got his legs just above the knees.

'Watch what you're doing,' Eddie said in a querulous, nervous voice. 'I'm 
ticklish.'
'Ramon ees plenny teekeleesh, senhorr,' Richie's voice called down.


Ben  got  Eddie  around  the  waist,  trying  to  keep  his  hand  away  from  
the  cast  and  the  sling.
The  two  of  them  manhandled  Eddie  through  the  cellar  window  like  a  
corpse.  Eddie  cried  out
once, but that was all.

'Eh-Eh-Eddie?'

'Yeah,'  Eddie  said,  'okay.  No  big  deal.'  But  large  drops  of  sweat  
stood  out  on  his  forehead
and he was breathing in quick rasps. His eyes darted around the cellar.

Bill stepped  back  again.  Beverly  stood  near  him,  now  holding  the  
Bullseye  by  the  shaft  and
the  cup,  ready  to  fire  if  necessary.  Her  eyes  swept  the  cellar  
constantly.  Richie  came  through
next,  followed  by  Stan  and  Mike.  Both  of  the  latter  moved  with  a  
smooth  grace  that Ben
deeply  envied.  Then  they  were  all  down,  down  in  the  cellar  where  
Bill  and  Richie  had  seen  It
only  a month before.

The  room  was  dim,  but  not  dark.  Dusky  light  shafted  in  through  the  
windows  and  pooled
on  the  dirt  floor.  The  cellar  seemed  very  big  to Ben, almost  too  
big, as if he were witnessing
an  optical  illusion  of  some  sort.  Dusty  rafters  crisscrossed  overhead. 
 The  furnace-pipes were
rusty.  Some  sort  of  duty  white  cloth  hung  from  the  water-pipes  in  
dirty  strings  and  strands.
The smell was down here too. A dirty yellow smell. Ben thought: It's here, all 
right. Oh yeah.

Bill  started  toward  the  stairs.  The  others  fell  in  behind  him.  He  
halted  at  their  foot  and
glanced  underneath.  He  reached  under  with  one  foot  and  kick-pawed  
something  out.  They
looked at it wordlessly. It was a white clown-glove, now streaked with dirt and 
dust.

'Uh-uh-upstairs,' he said.

They  went  up  and  emerged  into  a  dirty  kitchen.  One  plain  
straight-backed  chair  stood
marooned  in  the  center  of  the  humped  hillocky  linoleum.  That  was  it  
for  furniture.  There
were  empty  liquor  bottles  in  one  corner.  Ben  could  see  others  in  
the  pantry.  He  could  smell
booze  — wine, mostly  —  and old stale cigarettes. Those smells were dominant, 
but that other
smell was there, too. It was getting stronger all the time.

Beverly  went  to  the  cupboards  and  opened  one  of  them.  She  screamed  
piercingly  as  a
blackish-brown Norway rat tumbled out almost into her face. It struck the 
counter with a plop
and  glared  around  at  them  with  its  black  eyes.  Still  screaming,  
Beverly  raised  the  Bullseye
and pulled the sling back.

'NO!' Bill roared.

She  turned  her  pale  terrified  face  toward  him.  Then  she  nodded  and  
relaxed  her  arm,  the
silver  ball  unfired  —  but  Ben  thought  she  had  been  very,  very  
close.  She backed up slowly,
ran into Ben, jumped. He put an arm around her, tight.

The  rat  scurried  down  the  length  of  the  counter,  jumped  to  the  
floor,  ran  into  the  pantry,
and was gone.

'It  wanted  me  to  shoot  at  it,'  Beverly  said  in  a  faint  voice.  'Use 
  up half of our ammunition
on it.'

'Yes,'  Bill  said.  'It's  l-l-like  the  FBI  training  r-range  at  
Quh-Quh-Quantico,  in  a  w-w-way.
They  seh-send  y-you  down  this  f-f-hake  street  and  p-pop  up  
tuh-hargets.  If  you  shuh-shoot
any honest citizens ih-instead of just cruh-crooks, you l-lose puh-hoints.'

'I can't do this, Bill,' she said. 'I'll mess it up. Here. You.' She held the 
Bullseye out, but Bill
shook his head.

'You h-h-have to, B-Beverly.'

There was a mewling from another cupboard.
Richie walked toward it.

'Don't get too close!' Stan barked. 'It might — '

Richie  looked  inside  and  an  expression  of  sick  disgust  crossed  his  
face.  He  slammed  the
cupboard shut with a bang that produced a dead echo in the empty house.

'A  litter.'  Richie  sounded  ill.  'Biggest  litter  I  ever  saw  .  .  .  
anyone  ever  saw,  probably.'  He

rubbed  the  back  of  his  hand  across  his  mouth.  There's  hundreds  of 
them in there.' He looked


at  them,  his  mouth  twitching  a  little  on  one  side.  'Their  tails . . 
.  they were all ta ngled up, Bill.
Knotted together.' He grimaced. 'Like snakes.'

They  looked  at  the  cupboard  door.  The  mewling  was  muffled  but  still  
audible.   Rats,  Ben
thought,   looking   at   Bill's   white   face   and,   over   Bill's   
shoulder,   Mike's   ashy-gray   one.
Everyone's ascared of rats. It knows it, too.

'C-C-Come  on,'  Bill  said.  'H-Here  on  Nuh-Nuh-Neibolt  Street,  the  
f-f-fun  just  neh-hever
stops.'

They  went  down  the  front  hall.  Here  the  unlovely  smells  of  rotting  
plaster  and  old  urine
were  intermixed.  They  were  able  to look out at the street through dirty 
panes of glass and see
their  bikes.  Bev's  and  Ben's  were  heeled  over  on  their  kickstands.  
Bill's  leaned  against  a
stunted  maple  tree.  To  Ben  the  bikes  looked  a  thousand  miles  away,  
like  things  seen  through
the  wrong  end  of  a  telescope.  The  deserted  street  with  its  casual  
patchings  of  asphalt,  the
faded  humid  sky,  the  steady  ding-ding-ding  of  a  locomotive  running  on 
 a  siding  .  .  .  these
things  seemed  like  dreams  to  him,  hallucinations.  What  was  real  was  
this  squalid  hallway
with its stinks and shadows.

There was a shatter of broken brown glass in one corner — Rheingold bottles.

In  the  other  corner,  wet  and  swelled,  was  a  digest-sized  girlybook.  
The  woman  on  the
cover  was  bent  over  a  chair,  her  skirt  up  in  the  back to show the 
tops of her fishnet hose and
her  black  panties.  The  picture  did  not  look  particularly  sexy  to  
Ben,  nor  did  it  embarrass  him
that  Beverly  had  also  glanced  at  it.  Moisture  had  yellowed  the  
woman's  skin  and  moisture  had
humped   the   cover   in   ripples  that  became  wrinkles  on  her  face.  
Her  salacious  wink  had
become the leer of a dead whore.

(Years  later,  as  Ben  recounted  this,  Bev  suddenly  cried  out,  
startling  all  of them  —  they
were  not  so  much  listening  to  the  story  as  reliving  it.  'It  was  
her!'  Bev  yelled.  'Mrs  Kersh!  It
was her!')

As  Ben  looked,  the  young/old  crone  on  the  girlybook  cover  winked  at  
him.  She  wiggled
her fanny in an obscene come-on.

Cold all over, yet sweating, Ben looked away.

Bill  pushed  open  a  door  on  the  left  and  they  followed  him  into  a  
vaultlike  room  that  might
once  have  been  a  parlor.  A  crumpled  pair  of  green  pants  was  hung  
over  the  light-fixture
which  depended  from  the  ceiling.  Like  the  cellar,  this  room  seemed  
much  too  big  to  Ben,
almost  as  long  as  a  freight-car.  Much  too  long  for  a  house  as  
small  as  this  one  had  appeared
from the outside —

Oh,  but  that  was  outside,   a  new  voice  spoke  inside  his  mind.  It  
was  a  jocular,  squealing
voice,  and  Ben  realized  with  sudden  numbing  certainty  that  he  was  
hearing  Pennywise Itself;
Pennywise  was  speaking  to  him  on  some  crazy  mental  radio.  Outside,  
things  always  look
smaller than they really are, don't they, Ben?

'Go away,' he whispered.

Richie turned to look at him, his face still strained and pale. 'You say 
something?'

Ben shook his head. The voice was gone. That was an important thing, a good 
thing. Yet

(outside)

he  had  understood.  This  house  was  a  special  place,  a  kind  of  
station,  one  of  the  places  in
Derry,  one  of  the  many,  perhaps,  from  which  It  was  able  to  find  
its  way  into  the  overworld.
This   stinking   rotted   house   where   everything   was   somehow   wrong.  
 It  wasn't  just  that  it
seemed  too  big;  the   angles  were  wrong,  the  perspective  crazy.  Ben  
was  standing  just  inside
the  door  between  the  parlor  and  the  hallway  and  the  others  were  
moving  away  from  him
across  a  space  that  now  looked  almost  as  big  as  Bassey  Park  .  .  . 
 but  as  they  moved  away,
they seemed to grow larger instead of smaller. The floor seemed to slope, and —


Mike  turned.  'Ben!'  he  called,  and Ben saw alarm on his face. 'Catch up! 
We're losing you!'
He  could  barely  hear  the  last  word.  It  trailed  away  as  if  the  
others  were  being  swept  off  on  a
fast train.

Suddenly  terrified,  he  began  to  run.  The  door  behind  him  swept  shut  
with  a  muffled  bang.
He  screamed  .  .  .  and  something  seemed  to  sweep  through  the  air  
just  behind  him,  ruffling  his
shirt.  He  looked  back  but  there  was  nothing  there.  That  did  not  
change  his  belief,  however,
that something had been.

He  caught  up  with  the  others.  He  was panting, out of breath, and would 
have sworn he had
run  half  a  mile  at  least  .  .  .  but  when  he  looked  back,  the  
parlor's  far  wall  was  not  ten  feet
away.

Mike grasped his shoulder hard enough to hurt.

'You  scared  me,  man,'  he  said.  Richie,  Stan,  and Eddie were looking at 
Mike questioningly.
'He looked small,' Mike said. 'Like he was a mile away.'

'Bill!'

Bill looked back.

'We  gotta  make  sure  everybody  stays  close,'  Ben  panted.  'This  place  
.  .  .  it's  like  the
funhouse  in  a  carnival,  or  something.  We'll  get  lost.  I  think  It   
wants  us  to  get  lost.  To  get
separated.'

Bill  looked  at  him  for  a  moment,  lips  thin.  'All  right,'  he  said.  
'We  a-all stay cluh-cluh-hose.

No s-s-stragglers.'

They  nodded  back,  frightened,  clustered  outside  the  hall  door.  Stan's  
hand  groped  at  the
bird-book  in  his  back  pocket.  Eddie  was  holding  his  aspirator  in  one 
 hand,  crunching  it,
loosening  up,  then  crunching  it  again,  like  a  ninety-eight-pound  
weakling  trying  to  build  up
his muscles with a tennis ball.

Bill  opened  the  door  and  here  was  another,  narrower  hall.  The  
wallpaper,  which  showed
runners  of  roses  and  elves  wearing  green  caps,  was  falling  away  from 
 the  spongy  plaster  in
draggling   leaves.   Yellow   waterstains   spread   in   senile   rings   on  
 the   ceiling   overhead.   A
scummy wash of light fell through a dirty window at the end of the hall.

Abruptly  the  corridor  seemed  to  elongate.  The  ceiling  rose  and  then  
began  to  diminish

above  them  like  some  weird  rocket.  The  doors  grew  with  the  ceiling,  
pulled  up  like  taffy. The
faces of the elves grew long and became alien, their eyes bleeding black holes.

Stan shrieked and clapped his hands to his eyes.

'Ih-Ih-hit's not ruh-ruh-ruh-REAL!' Bill screamed.

'It  is!' Stan screamed back, his small closed fists plugging his eyes. 'It's  
real,  you know  it is,
God, I'm going crazy, this is crazy, this is crazy —

'Wuh-wuh-WATCH!'   Bill  bellowed  at  Stan,  at  all  of  them,  and  Ben,  
his  head  reeling,
watched  as  Bill  bent  down,  coiled,  and  suddenly  flung  himself  upward. 
 His  closed  left  fist
struck  nothing,  nothing  at  all,  but  there  was  a  heavy crr-rack!  
sound. Plaster dust puffed from
a place where there was no longer any ceiling . . . and then there was. The 
hallway was just a
hallway  again,  narrow,  low-ceilinged,  dirty.  But  the  walls  no  longer  
stretched  up  into  forever.
There  was  only  Bill,  looking  at  them  and  nursing  his  bleeding  hand,  
which  was  floury  with
plaster-dust. Overhead was the clear mark his fist had made in the soft plaster 
of the ceiling.


'N-N-Not  ruh-ruh-real,'  he  said  to  Stan,  to  all  of  them.  'Just  a
Huh-Huh-Huh-Halloween muh-muh-hask.'

-ff-false  f-fuh-face. Like a

'To you,  maybe,'  Stan  said  dully.  His  face  was  shocked  and  horrified. 
 He  looked  around  as
if  no  longer  sure  where  he  was.  Looking  at  him,  smelling  the  sour  
reek  coming  out  of  his
pores, Ben, who had been overjoyed at Bill's victory, got scared all over 
again. Stan was close
to  cracking  up.  Soon  he  would  go  into  hysterics,  begin  to  scream,  
perhaps,  and  what  would
happen then?


'To  you,'  Sta n  said  again.  'But  if  I'd  tried  that,  nothing  would  
have  happened.  Because  .  .  .
you've  got  your  brother,  Bill,  but  I  don't  have  anything.'  He  looked 
 around  —  first  back
toward the parlor, which had taken on a somber brown atmosphere, so thick and 
smoggy they
could  barely  see  the  door  through  which  they  had  entered  it,  to  
this  hall,  which  was  bright  but
somehow   dark,   somehow   filthy,   somehow   utterly   mad.   Elves   
capered   on   the   decaying
wallpaper  under  runners  of  roses.  Sun  glared  on  the  panes  of  the  
window  at  the end of the
hall,  and  Ben  knew  that  if  they  went  down  there  they  would  see  
dead  flies  .  .  .  more  broken
glass  .  .  .  and  then  what?  The  floorboards  spreading  apart,  spilling 
 them  into  a  dead  darkness
where  grasping  fingers  waited  to  catch  them?  Stan  was  right,  God,  
why  had  they  come  into
Its lair with nothing but their two stupid silver slugs and a fucking 
slingshot?

He saw Stan's panic leap from one of them to the next to the next  — like a 
grassfire driven
by  a  hot  wind,  it  widened  in  Eddie's  eyes,  dropped  Bev's  mouth  into 
 a  wounded  gasp,  made
Richie  push  his  glasses  up  with  both  hands  and  stare  around  as  if  
followed  from  close  behind
by    a fiend.

They  trembled  on  the  brink  of  flight,  Bill's  warning  to  stay  
together  almost  forgotten.  They
were   listening  to  gale-force  panicwinds  blowing  between  their  ears.  
As  if  in  a  dream  Ben
heard  Miss  Davies,  the  assistant  librarian,  reading  to  the  little  
ones:  Who  is  that  trip-trapping
on  my  bridge?   And  he  saw  them,  the  little  ones,  the  babies,  
leaning  forward,  ht eir faces still
and  solemn,  their  eyes  reflecting  the  eternal  fascination  of  the  
fairy-story:  would  the  monster
be bested . . . or would It feed?

'I  don't  have  anything!'  Stan  Uris  wailed,  and  he  seemed  very  small, 
 almost  small  enough
to  slip  through  one  of  the  cracks  in  the  hallway's  plank  flooring  
like  a  human  letter.  'You  got
your brother, man, but I don't have anything?

'You  duh-duh-duh-do!'  Bill yelled back. He grabbed Stan and Ben felt sure he 
was going to
bust him one and his thoughts moaned,  No, Bill, please, that's Henry's way, if 
you do that It'll
kill us all right now!

But  Bill  didn't  hit  Stan.  He  whirled  him  around  with  rough  hands  
and  tore  the  paperback
from the back pocket of Stan's jeans.

'Gimme  it!'  Stan  screamed,  beginning  to  cry.  The  others  stood  
stunned,  shrinking  away

from  Bill,  whose  eyes  now  seemed  to  actually  burn.  His  forehead  
glowed  like  a  lamp,  and  he
held the book out to Stan like a priest holding out a cross to ward off a 
vampire.

'You guh-guh-got your b-b-bi-bir-bir —

He  turned  his  head  up,  the  cords  in  his  neck  standing  out  like  
cables,  his  adam's  apple  like
an  arrowhead  buried  in  his  throat.  Ben  was  filled  with  both  fear  
and  pity  for  his  friend  Bill
Denbrough;  but  there  was  also  a  strong  sense  of  wonderful  relief.  
Had  he  doubted  Bill?  Had
any of them? Oh Bill, say it, please, can't you say it?

And somehow, Bill did. 'You got your BUH-BUH-BUH-BIRDS! Your BUH-BUH-BIRDS!'

He thrust the book at Stan. Stan took it, and looked at Bill dumbly. Tears 
glimmered on his
cheeks.  He  held  the  book  so  tightly  that  his  fingers  were  white.  
Bill  looked  at  him,  then  at  the
others.

'Cuh-cuh-home on,' he said again.

'Will the birds work?' Stan asked. His voice was low, husky.
They worked in the Standpipe, didn't they?' Bev asked him.
Stan looked at her uncertainly.

Richie  clapped  him  on  the  shoulder.  'Come  on,  Stan-kid,' he said. 'Is 
you a man or is you a
mouse?'

'I must be a man,' Stan said shakily, and wiped tears from his face with the 
heel   of his left
hand. 'So far as I know, mice don't shit their pants.'

They  laughed  and  Ben  could  have  sworn  he  felt  the  house  pulling  
away  from  them,  from

that sound. Mike turned. 'That big room. The one we just came through. Look!'


They  looked.  The  parlor  was  now  almost  black.  It  was  not  smoke,  nor 
 any  kind  of  gas;  it
was  just  blackness,  a  nearly  solid  blackness.  The  air  had  been  
robbed  of  its  light.  The
blackness seemed to roll and flex as they stared into it, to almost coalesce 
into faces.

'Come oh-oh-on.'

They turned away from the black and walked down the hall. Three doors opened 
off it, two
with  dirty  white  porcelain  doorknobs,  the  third  with  only  a  hole  
where  the  knob's  shaft  had
been.  Bill  grabbed  the  first  knob,  turned  it,  and  pushed  the  door  
open.  Bev  crowded  up  next
to him, raising the Bullseye.

Ben  drew  back,  aware  that  the  others  were  doing  the  same,  crowding  
behind  Bill  like

frightened  quail.  It  was  a  bedroom,  empty  save  for  one  stained  
mattress.  The  rusty  ghosts  of
the  coils  in  a  box-spring  long  departed  were  tattooed  into  the  
mattress's  yellow  hide.  Outside
the room's one window, sunflowers dipped and nodded.

'There's   nothing   —   '   Bill   began,   and   then   the   mattress   
began   to   bulge   in   and   out
rhythmically.  It  suddenly  ripped  straight  down  the  middle.  A  black  
sticky  fluid  began  to  spill
out,  staining  the  mattress  and  then  running  over  the  floor  toward  
the  doorway.  It  came  in  long
ropy tendrils.

'Shut it, Bill!' Richie shouted. 'Shut the fuckin door!'

Bill  slammed  it  shut,  looked  around  at  them,  and  nodded.  'Come  on.'  
He  had  barely
touched the knob of the second door  — this one on the other side of the narrow 
hall  — when
the buzzing scream began behind the cheap wood.

9

Even  Bill  drew  back  from  that  rising,  inhuman  cry.  Ben  felt  the  
sound  might  drive  him  mad;
his  mind  visualized  a  giant  cricket  behind  the  door,  like  something  
from  a  movie  where
radiation  made  all  the  bugs  get  big  —  The  Beginning  of  the  End,  
maybe,  or  The  Black
Scorpion,  or  that  one  about  the  ants  in  the  Los  Angeles  stormdrains. 
 He  could  not  have  run
even     if  that  buzzing  rugose  horror  had  splintered  the  panels  of  
the  door  and  begun  caressing
him  with  its  great  hairy  legs.  Beside  him,  he  was  dimly  aware  that  
Eddie  was  breathing  in
hacking gasps.

The     scream     rose     in     pitch,     never     losing     that     
buzzing,     insectile     quality.     Bill
fell   back   another   step,   no   blood   in   his   face   now,   his   
eyes   bulging,   his   lips   only
a purple scar below his nose.

'Shoot  it,  Beverly!'  Ben  heard  himself  cry.  'Shoot  it  through  the  
door,  shoot  it  before  it  can
get  us!'  And  the  sun  fell  through  the  dirty  window  at  the  end  of  
the  hall,  a  heavy  feverish
weight.

Beverly  raised  the  Bullseye  like  a  girl  in  a  dream  as  the  buzzing  
scream  rose  louder,
louder, louder —

But  before  she  could  pull  the  sling  back,  Mike  was  shouting:  'No!  
No!  Don't,  Bev!  Oh
gosh!  I'll  be  dipped!'  And  incredibly,  Mike  was  laughing.  He  pushed  
forward,  grabbed  the
knob,  turned  it,  and  shoved  the  door  open.  It  came  free  of  the  
swollen  jamb  with  a  brief
grinding  noise.  'It's  a  mooseblower!  Just  a  mooseblower,  that's  all,  
something  to  scare  the
crows!'

The room was an empty box. Lying on the floor was a Sterno can with both ends 
cut off. In
the  middle,  strung  tight  and  knotted  outside  holes  punched  in  the  
can's  sides,  was  a  waxed
length  of  string.  Although  there  was  no  breeze  in  the  room —  the  
one  window  was  shut  and
indifferently  boarded  over,  letting  light  pass  only  in  chinks  and  
rays  —  there  could  be  no
doubt that the buzzing was coming from the can.


Mike  walked  to  it  and  fetched  it  a  solid  kick.  The  buzzing  stopped  
as  the  can  tumbled  into
a far corner.

'Just   a   mooseblower,'   he   said   to   the   others,   as   if   
apologizing.   'We   put   cm   on   the
scarecrows.  It's  nothing.  Only  a  cheap  trick.  But  I  ain't  a  crow.'  
He  looked  at  Bill,  not
laughing  anymore  but  smiling  still.  'I'm  still  scared  of  It  —  I  
guess  we  all  are  —  but  It's
scared of us, too. Tell you the truth, I think It's scared pretty bad.'

Bill nodded. 'I-I do, too,' he said.

They  went  down  to  the  door  at  the end of the hall, and as Ben watched 
Bill hook his finger
into  the  hole  where  the  doorknob's  shaft  had  been,  he  understood  
that  this  was  where  it  was
going  to  end;  there  would  be  no  trick  behind  this  door.  The  smell  
was  worse  now,  and  that
thundery   feeling   of   two   opposing   powers   swirling   around   them   
was   much   stronger.   He
glanced  at  Eddie,  one  arm  in  a  sling,  his  good  hand  clutching  his  
aspirator.  He  looked  at  Bev
on  his  other  side,  white-faced,  holding  the  slingshot  up  like  a  
wishbone.  He  thought:  If  we
have to run, I'll try to protect you, Beverly. I swear I'll try.

She  might  have  heard  his  thought,  because  she  turned  toward  him  and  
offered  him  a
strained smile. Ben smiled back.

Bill  pulled  the  door  open.  Its  hinges  uttered  a  dull  scream  and  
then  were  silent.  It  was  a
bathroom . . . but something was wrong with it.  Someone broke something in 
here  was all that
Ben could make out at first. Not a booze bottle . . . what?

White    chips    and    shards,    glimmering    wickedly,    lay    strewn    
everywhere.    Then    he
understood. It was the crowning insanity. He laughed. Richie joined him.

'Somebody  must  have  let  the  granddaddy  of  all  farts,'  Eddie  said,  
and  Mike  began  to  giggle

and nod his head. Stan was smiling a little. Only Bill and Beverly remained 
grim.

The  white  pieces  littered  across  the  floor  were  shards  of  porcelain.  
The  toilet-bowl  had
exploded.  The  tank  stood  drunkenly  at  an  angle  in  a  puddle  of  
water,  saved  from  falling  over
by  the  fact  that  the  toilet  had  been  placed  in  one  corner  of  the  
room  and  the tank had landed
kitty-corner.

They  crowded  in  behind  Bill  and  Beverly,  their  feet  gritting  on  bits 
 of  porcelain.  Whatever
it was,  Ben thought,  it  blew  that  poor  toilet  right  to  hell.  He had a 
vision of Henry Bowers
dropping  two  or  three  of  his  M-80s  into  it,  slamming  the  lid  down,  
then  bugging  out  in  a
hurry.  He  couldn't  think  of  anything  else  short  of  dynamite  that  
would  have  done  such  a
cataclysmic  job.  There  were  a  few  chunks,  but  damned  few;  most  of  
what  was  left  were
wicked-looking   slivers   like   blowgun  darts.  The  wallpaper  
(rose-runners  and  capering  elves,
as                     in  the  hall)  was  peppered  with  holes  all  the  
way  around  the  room.  It  looked  like  shotgun
blasts   but   Ben   knew   it   was   more   porcelain,   driven   into   the  
 walls   by   the   force   of   the
explosion.

There  was  a  bathtub  standing  on  claw  feet  with  generations  of  grimy  
toe-jam between each
blunt  talon.  Ben  peeked  into  it  and  saw  a  tidal-flat  of  silt  and  
grit  on  the  bottom.  A  rusty
showerhead  glared  down  from  above.  There  was  a  basin  and  a  medicine  
cabinet standing ajar
above       it,   disclosing   empty   shelves.   There   were   small   
rust-rings   on   these   shelves,   where
bottles had once stood.

'I wouldn't get too close to that, big Bill!' Richie said sharply, and Ben 
looked around.

Bill  was  approaching  the  mouth  of  the  drainhole  in  the  floor,  over  
which  the  toilet  had
once sat. He leaned toward it . . . and then turned back to the others.

'I   can   h-h-hear   the   pub-pumping   muh-muh-machinery   .   .   .   just  
 like   in   the   Buh-Buh-
harrens!'

Bev  drew  closer  to  Bill.  Ben followed her, and yes, he could hear it; that 
steady thrumming
noise.  Except,  echoing  up  through  the  pipes,  it  didn't  sound  like  
machinery  at  all.  It  sounded
like something alive.


Th-Th-This  is  w-w-where  It  cuh-cuh-hame  fr-from,'  Bill  said.  His  face  
was  still  deadly
pale,  but  his  eyes  were  alight  with  excitement.  'This  is  w-where  it  
cuh-hame  from  that  d-d-
day, and th-hat's w-w-where it a-a-always comes fr-rom! The druh-druh-drains!'

Richie was nodding. 'We were in the cellar, but that isn't where It was — It 
came down the
stairs. Because this is where It could get out.'

'And It did this?' Beverly asked.

'Ih-It was in a h-h-hurry, I th-think,' Bill said gravely.

Ben  looked  into  the  pipe.  It  was  about  three  feet  in  diameter  and  
dark  as  a  mineshaft. The
inner  ceramic  surface  of  the  pipe  was  crusted  with  stuff  he  didn't  
want  to  know  about.  That
thrumming  sound  floated  up  hypnotically  .  .  .  and  suddenly  he  saw  
something.  He  did  not  see
it with his physical eyes, not at first, but with one buried deep in his mind.

It was rushing toward them, moving at express-train speed, filling the throat 
of this dark
pipe from side to side; It was in Its own form now, whatever that might be; It 
would take
some shape from their minds when It got here. It was coming, coming up from Its 
own foul
runs and black catacombs under the earth, Its eyes glowing a feral yellowish 
green, coming,
coming; It was coming.

And  then,  at  first  like  sparks,  he  saw  Its  eyes  down  in  that  
darkness.  They  took  shape  —
flaring  and  malignant.  Over  the  thrumming  sound  of  the  machinery,  Ben 
 could  now  hear  a
new noise  —  Whoooooooo . . .  A fetid smell belched from the ragged mouth of 
the drain-pipe
and he fell back, coughing and gagging.

'It's coming!' He screamed. 'Bill, I saw It, It's coming!'
Beverly raised the Bullseye. 'Good,' she said.

Something  exploded  out  of  the  drainpipe.  Ben,  trying  to  recall  that  
first  confrontation  later,
could  only  remember  a  silvery-orange  shifting  shape.  It  was  not  
ghostly;  it  was  solid,  and he
sensed  some  other  shape,  some  real  and  ultimate  shape,  behind  it  .  
.  .  but  his  eyes  could  not
grasp what he was seeing, not precisely.

Then  Richie  was  stumbling  backward,  his  face  a  scrawl  of  terror,  
screaming  over  and  over
again:  'The  Werewolf!  Bill!  It's  the  Werewolf!  The  Teenage  Werewolf.'  
And  suddenly  the
shape locked into reality, for Ben, for all of them. Richie's It became their 
It.

The  Werewolf  stood  poised  over  the  drainpipe,  one  hairy  foot  on  
either  side  of  where  the
toilet  had  once  been.  Its  green  eyes  glared  at  them  from  Its  feral  
face.  Its  muzzle  wrinkled
back   and   yellowish-white  foam  seeped  through  Its  teeth.  It  uttered  
a  shattering  growl.  Its
arms  pistoned  out  toward  Beverly,  the  cuffs  of  Its  high-school letter 
jacket pulling back   from
Its fur-covered arms. Its smell was hot and raw and murderous.

Beverly  screamed.  Ben  grabbed  the  back  of  her  blouse  and  yanked  so  
hard  that  the  seams
under  the  arms  tore.  One  clawed  hand  swept  through  the  air  where  
she  had  been  only  a
moment  before.  Beverly  went  stumbling  backwards  against  the  wall.  The  
silver  ball  popped
out     of  the  cup  of  the  Bullseye.  For  a  moment  it  glimmered  in  
the  air.  Mike,  quicker  than
quick, snatched it and gave it back to her.

'Shoot  it,  baby,'  he  said.  His  voice  was  perfectly  calm;  almost  
serene.  'You  shoot  it  right
now.'

The  Werewolf  uttered  a  shattering  roar  that  became  a  flesh-freezing 
howl, Its snout turned

up toward the ceiling.

The  howl  became  a  laugh.  It  lunged  at  Bill  as  Bill  turned  to  look  
at  Beverly.  Ben shoved
him aside and Bill went sprawling.

'Shoot It, Bev!' Richie screamed. 'For God's sake, shoot It!'

The  Werewolf  sprang  forward,  and  there  was  no  question  in  Ben's  
mind,  then  or  later,  that
It  knew  exactly  who  was  in  charge  here.  Bill  was  the one It was 
after. Beverly drew and fired.
The ball flew and again it was off the mark but this time there was no saving 
curve. It missed


by  more  than  a  foot,  punching  a  hole  in  the  wallpaper  above  the  
tub.  Bill,  his  arms  peppered
with bits of porcelain and bleeding in a dozen pieces, uttered a screaming 
curse.

The  Werewolf  s  head  snapped  around;  its  gleaming  green  eyes  
considered  Beverly.  Not
thinking, Ben stepped in front of her as she groped in her pocket for the other 
silver slug. The
jeans  she  wore  were  too  tight.  She  had  donned  them  with  no  thought  
of  provocation;  it  was
just  that,  like  the  shorts  she  had  worn  on  the  day  of  Patrick  
Hockstetter  and  the  refrigerator,
she  was  still  wearing  last  year's  model.  Her  fingers  closed  on  the  
ball  but  it  squirted  away.
She  groped  again  and  got  it.  She  pulled  it,  turning  her  pocket  
inside  out  and  spilling  fourteen
cents, the stubs of two Aladdin tickets, and a quantity of pocket-lint onto the 
floor.

The  Werewolf  lunged  at  Ben,  who  was  standing  protectively  in  front  
of  her  .  .  .  and
blocking her field of fire. Its head was cocked at the predator's deadly 
questing angle, its jaws
snapping.  Ben  reached  blindly  for  It.  There  seemed  to  be  no  room  in 
 his  reactions  now  for
terror  —  he  felt  a  clear-headed  sort  of  anger  instead,  mixed  with  
bewilderment  and  a  sense
that  somehow  time  had  come  to  a  sudden  unexpected  screech-halt.  He  
snagged  his  hands  in
tough matted hair  —  the pelt,  he thought,  I've got Its pelt —  and he could 
feel the heavy bone
of  Its  skull  beneath.  He thrust at that wolvish head with all of his force, 
but although he was a
big boy, it did no good at all. If he had not stumbled back and struck the 
wall, the thing would
have torn his throat open with its teeth.

It  came  after  him,  Its  greenish-yellow  eyes  flaring.  It  growled  with  
each  breath.  It  smelled
of  the  sewer  and  something  else,  some  wild  yet  unpleasant  odor  like  
rotten  hazelnuts.  One  of
Its  heavy  paws  rose  and  Ben  skittered  aside  as  best  he  could.  The  
paw,  tipped  with  heavy
claws,  ripped  bloodless  wounds  through  the  wallpaper  and  into  the  
cheesy  plaster  beneath.
He  could  dimly  hear  Richie  bellowing  something,  Eddie  howling  at  
Beverly  to  shoot  it,  shoot
it.  But  Beverly  did  not.  This  was  her  only  other  chance.  It  didn't  
matter;  she  intended  that it
be the only one she  would  need. A clear coldness she never saw again in her 
life fell over her
sight.  In  it  everything  stood  out  and  forward;  never  again  would  she 
 see  the  three  dimensions
of  reality  so  clearly  denned.  She  possessed  every  color,  every  angle, 
 every  distance.  Fear
departed.   She   felt   the   hunter's   simple   lust   of   certainty   and  
 oncoming   consummation.   Her
pulse   slowed.   The   hysterical   trembling   grip   in   which   she   had  
 been   holding   the   Bullseye
loosened,  then  firmed  and  became  natural.  She  drew  in  a  deep  breath. 
 It  seemed  to  her  that
her   lungs   would   never   fill   completely.   Dimly,   faintly,   she   
heard   popping   sounds.   Didn't
matter,  whatever  they  were.  She  tracked  left,  waiting  for  the  
Werewolfs  improbable  head  to
fall with cool perfection into the wishbone beyond the extended V of the 
drawn-back sling.

The  Werewolfs  claws  descended  again.  Ben  tried  to  duck  under  them  .  
.  .  but  suddenly  he
was  in  Its  grip.  It  jerked  him  forward  as  if  he  had  been  no  more  
than  a  ragdoll.  Its  jaws
snapped open.

'Bastard — '

He  thrust  a  thumb  into  one  of  Its  eyes.  It  bellowed  with  pain,  and 
 one  of  those  claw-tipped
paws  ripped  through  his  shirt.  Ben  sucked  his  stomach  in,  but  one  
of  the  claws  pulled  a
sizzling  line  of  pain  down  his  chest  and  stomach.  Blood  gushed  out  
of  him  and  splattered  on
his  pants,  his  sneakers,  the  floor.  The  Werewolf  threw  him  into  the  
bathtub.  He  thumped  his
head, saw stars, struggled into a sitting position, and saw his lap was full of 
blood.

The  Werewolf  whirled  around.  Ben  observed  with  that  same  lunatic  
clarity  that  It  was
wearing  faded  Levi  Strauss  bluejeans.  The  seams  had  split  open.  A  
snot-caked red bandanna,
the  sort  a  train-man might carry, hung from one back pocket. Written on the 
back of Its silver
and  orange  high  school  jacket  were  the  words  DERRY  HIGH  SCHOOL  
KILLING  TEAM.  Below
this, the name PENNYWISE. And in the center, a number: 13.

It  went  for  Bill  again.  He  had  gotten  to  his  feet  and  now  stood  
with  his  back  to  the  wall,
looking at It steadily.

'Shoot it, Beverly!' Richie screamed again.


'Beep-beep,  Richie,'  she  heard  herself  reply  from  roughly  a  thousand  
miles  away.  The
Werewolf's  head  was  suddenly  there,  in  the  wishbone.  She  covered  one  
of  its  green  eyes  with
the  cup  and  released.  There  was  no  shake  in  either  of  her  hands;  
she  fired  as  smoothly  and
naturally  as  she  had  fired  at  the  cans  in  the  dump  on  the  day  
they  had  all  taken  turns  to  see
who was the best.

There was time for Ben to think  Oh Beverly if you miss this time we're all 
dead and I don't
want  to  die  in  this  dirty  bathtub  but  I  can't  get  out.  There was no 
miss. A round eye  — not
green  but  dead  black  —  suddenly  appeared  high  up  in  the  center  of  
Its  snout:  she  had  aimed
for the right eye and missed by less than half an inch.

Its  scream  —  an  almost  human  scream  of  surprise,  pain,  fear  and  
rage  —  was deafening.
Ben's  ears  rang  with  it.  Then  the  perfect  round  hole  in  Its  snout  
was  gone,  obscured  by
freshets  of  blood.  It  was  not  flowing;  it  gouted  from  the  wound  in  
a  high-pressure torrent. The
freshet  drenched  Bill's  face  and  hair.   Doesn't  matter,  Ben  thought  
hysterically.  Don't worry,
Bill. Nobody will be able to see it anyway when we get out of here. If we ever 
do.

Bill   and   Beverly   advanced   on   the   Werewolf,   and   behind   them,   
Richie   cried   out
hysterically: 'Shoot It again, Beverly! Kill it!'

'Kill It!' Mike screamed.

'That's right, kill It!' Eddie chimed in.

'Kill  it!'  Bill  cried,  his  mouth  drawn  down  in  a  quivering  bow.  
There  was  a  whitish-yellow
streak of plaster dust in his hair. 'Kill It, Beverly, don't let it get away!'

No  ammo  left,  Ben thought incoherently,  we're  slugged  out.  What  are  
you  talking  about,
kill it?  But  he  looked  at  Beverly  and  understood.  If  his  heart  had  
never  been  hers  before  that

moment,  it  would  have  flown  to  her  then.  She  had  pulled  the  sling  
back  again.  Her  fingers
were closed over the cup, hiding its emptiness.

'Kill  It!'  Ben  screamed,  and  flopped  clumsily  over  the  edge  of  the  
tub.  His  jeans  and
underwear  were  soaked  against  his  skin  with  blood.  He  had  no  idea  
if  he  was  hurt  badly  or
not.  Following  the  original  hot  sizzle  there  hadn't  been  much  pain,  
but  there  sure  was  an
awful lot of blood.

The  Werewolf's  greenish  eyes  flickered  among  them,  now  filled  with  
uncertainty as well as

pain. Blood poured down the front of Its jacket in freshets.

Bill Denbrough smiled. It was a gentle, rather lovely smile . . . but it did 
not touch his eyes.
'You shouldn't have started with my brother,' he said. 'Send the fucker to 
hell, Beverly.'

The  uncertainty  left  the  creature's  eyes  —  It  believed.  With  lithe  
smooth  grace,  It  turned
and dove into the drain. As It went, It changed. The Derry High jacket melted 
into its pelt and
the  color  ran  out  of  both.  The  shape  of  Its  skull  elongated,  as  if 
 it  had  been  made  of  wax
which  was  now  softening  and  beginning  to  run.  Its  shape  changed.  For 
 one  instant  Ben
believed  he  had  nearly  seen  what  shape  It  really  was,  and  his  heart 
 froze  inside  his  chest,
leaving him gasping.

'I'll  kill  you  all!'  a  voice  roared  from  inside  the  drainpipe.  It  
was  thick,  savage,  not  in  the
least human. 'Kill you all . . . kill you all . . . kill you all . . . ' The 
words faded back and back,
diminishing,  washing  out,  growing  distant  .  .  .  at  last  joining  the  
low  throbbing  hum  of  the
pumping machinery floating through the pipes.

The  house  seemed  to  settle  with  a  heavy  sub-audible  thud.  But  it  
wasn't  settling,  Ben
realized;  in  some  strange  way  it  was  shrinking,  coming  back  to  its  
normal  size.  Whatever
magic  It  had  used  to  make  the  house  at  29  Neibolt  Street  seem  
bigger  was  now  withdrawn.
The  house  snapped  back  like  an  elastic.  It  was  only  a  house  now,  
smelling  damp  and  a  little
rotten,  an  unfurnished  house  where  winos  and  hobos  sometimes  came  to  
drink  and  talk  and
sleep out of the rain.

It was gone.

In Its wake the silence seemed very loud.


10

'W-W-We guh-got  to  g-g-get  ow-ow-out  of  this  p-place,' Bill said. He 
walked over to where
Ben  was  trying  to  get  up  and  grabbed  one  of  his  outstretched  hands. 
 Beverly  was  standing
near  the  drain.  She  looked  down  at  herself  and  that  coldness  
disappeared  in  a  flush  that
seemed  to  turn  all  her  skin  into  one  warm  stocking.  It  must  have  
been  a  deep  breath  indeed.
The  dim  popping  sounds  had  been  the  buttons  on  her  blouse.  They  
were  gone,  every  single
one  of them.  The  blouse  hung  open  and  her  small  breasts  were  clearly 
 revealed.  She  snatched
the blouse closed.

'Ruh-Ruh-Richie,' Bill said. 'Help me with B-B-Ben. He's h-h-h — '

Richie  joined  him,  then  Stan  and  Mike.  The  four  of  them  got  Ben  to 
 his  feet. Eddie  had
gone  to  Beverly  and  put  his  good  arm  awkwardly  around  her  shoulders. 
 'You  did  great,'  he
said, and Beverly burst into tears.

Ben took two big staggering steps to the wall and leaned against it before he 
could fall over
again.  His  head  felt  light.  Color  kept  washing  in  and  out  of  the  
world.  He  felt  decidedly
pukey.

Then Bill's arm was around him, strong and comforting.
'How b-b-bad ih-ih-is it, H-H-Haystack?'

Ben  forced  himself  to  look  down  at  his  stomach.  He  found  performing  
two  simple actions

—  bending his neck and spreading apart the slit in his shirt  — took more 
courage than he had
needed  to  enter  the  house  in  the  first  place.  He  expected to see half 
his insides hanging down
in  front  of  him  like  grotesque  udders.  Instead  he  saw  that  the  flow 
 of  blood  had  slowed  to  a
sluggish trickle. The Werewolf had slashed him long and deep, but apparently 
not mortally.

Richie  joined  them.  He  looked  at  the  cut  which  ran  a  twisting  
course  down  Ben's  chest  and
petered  out  on  the  upper  bulge  of his stomach, then soberly into Ben's 
face. 'It just about had
your guts for suspenders. Haystack. You know it?'

'No fake, Jake,' Ben said.

He  and  Richie  stared  at  each  other  for  a  long,  considering  moment,  
and  then  they  broke
into  hysterical  giggles  at  the  same  instant,  spraying  each  other  with 
 spittle.  Richie  took  Ben
into his arms and pounded his back. 'We beat It, Haystack! We beat It!'

'W-W-We  dih-dih-dih-didn't  beat  It,'  Bill  said  grimly.  'We  got  
l-l-lucky. Let's g-get  out  b-b-
before Ih-Ih-It d-d-decides to come buh-back.'

'Where?' Mike asked.

'The Buh-Buh-Barrens,' Bill said.

Beverly  made  her  way  over  to  them,  still  holding  her  blouse  closed.  
Her  cheeks  were
bright red. 'The clubhouse?'

Bill nodded.

'Can   I   have   someone's   shirt?'   Beverly   asked,   blushing   more   
furiously   than   ever.   Bill
glanced  down  at  her,  and  the  blood  came  into  his  own  face,  all  in  
a  rush.  He  turned  his  eyes
away  hastily,  but  in  that  instant  Ben  felt  a  rush  of  knowledge  and  
dismal  momentary  jealousy.
In that instant, that one bare second, Bill had become aware of her in a way 
that only Ben had
himself been before.

The  others  had  also  looked  and  then  looked  away.  Richie  coughed  
against  the  back  of  his
hand.  Stan  turned  red.  And  Mike  Hanlon  dropped  back a step or two as if 
actually frightened
by the sideswell of that one small white breast, visible below her hand.

Beverly   threw   her   head   up,   shaking   her   tangled   hair   back   
behind   her.   She   was   still
blushing, but her face was lovely.


'I can't help it that I'm a girl,' she said, 'or that I'm starting to get big 
on top . . . now can't I
please have someone's shirt?'

'Sh-sh-sure,'  Bill  said.  He  pulled  his  white  -t shirt over his head, 
baring his narrow chest, the
visible rack of his ribs, his sunburned, freckled shoulders. 'H-H-Here.'

'Thank  you,  Bill,'  she  said,  and  for  one  hot,  smoking  moment  their  
eyes  locked  directly.

Bill did not look away this time. His gaze was firm, adult.
'W-W-W-Welcome,' he said.

Good  luck,  Big  Bill,  Ben thought,  and  he  turned  away  from  that  gaze. 
 It  was  hurting  him,
hurting  him  in  a  deeper  place  than  any  Vampire  or  Werewolf  would  
ever  be  able  to  reach.
But  all  the  same,  there  was  such  a  thing  as  propriety.  The  word  he 
 didn't  know;  on  the
concept  he  was  very  clear.  Looking  at  them  when  they  were  looking  
at  each  other  that  way
would  be  as  wrong  as  looking at her breasts when she let go of the front 
of her blouse to pull
Bill's t-shirt over her head. If that's the way it is. But you'll never love 
her the way I do. Nev er.

Bill's  t-shirt  came  down  almost  to  her  knees.  If  not  for  the  jeans  
poking  out  from  beneath
its hem, she would have looked as if she was wearing a slip.

'L-L-Let's  guh-guh-go,'  Bill  repeated.  'I  duh-don't  nun-know  about  you  
g-guys,  but  I've  h-
h-had ee-ee-enough for wuh-wuh-one d-day.'

Turned out they all had.

11

The passage of an hour found them in the clubhouse, both the window and the 
trapdoor open.
It  was  cool  inside,  and  the  Barrens  were  blessedly  silent  that  day.  
They  sat  without  talking
much, each lost in his or her own thoughts. Richie and Bev passed a Marlboro 
back and forth.
Eddie  took  a  brief  snort  from  his  aspirator.  Mike  sneezed  several  
times  and  apologized.  He
said he was catching a cold.

'Thass  the  oney  theeng  you  could  catch,  senhorr,'  Richie  said,  
companionably  enough,  and
that was all.

Ben  kept  expecting  the  mad  interlude  in  the  house  on  Neibolt  Street  
to  take  on  the  hues  of
a dream.  It'll  recede  and  fall  apart,  he thought,  the way that bad 
dreams do. You wake up
gasping and sweating all over, but fifteen minutes later you can't remember 
what the dream
was even about.

But  that  didn't  happen.  Everything  that  had  happened,  from  the  time  
he  had  forced  his  way

in  through  the  cellar  window  to  the  moment  Bill  had  used  the  chair  
in  the  kitchen  to  break  a
window  so  they  could  get  out,  remained  bright  and  clearly  fixed  in  
his  memory.  It  had  not
been  a  dream.  The  clotted  wound  on  his  chest  and  belly  was  not  a  
dream,  and  it  didn't  matter
if his mom could see it or not.

At  last  Beverly  stood  up.  'I  have  to  go  home,'  she  said.  'I  want  
to  change  before  my  mom
gets home. If she sees me wearing a boy's shirt, she'll kill me.'

'Keel you, senhorrita,' Richie agreed, 'but she will keel you slow.'

'Beep-beep, Richie.'

Bill was looking at her gravely.
'I'll return your shirt, Bill.'

He nodded and waved a hand to show that this wasn't important.
'Will you get in trouble? Coming home without it?'

'N-No. They h-h-hardly nuh-hotice when I'm a-a-around, anyway.'

She  nodded,  bit  her  full  underlip,  a  girl  of  eleven  who  was  tall  
for  her  age  and  simply
beautiful.

'What happens next, Bill?'


'I d-d-don't nuh-nuh-know.'
'It's not over, is it?'

Bill shook his head.

Ben said, 'It'll want us more than ever now.'

'More  silver  slugs?'  she  asked  him.  He  found  he  could  barely  stand  
to  meet  her  glance.  I
love you, Beverly . . . just let me have that. You can have Bill, or the world, 
or whatever you
need. Just let me have that, let me go on loving you, and I guess it'll be 
enough.

'I don't know,' Ben said. 'We could, but . . . ' He trailed off vaguely, 
shrugged. He could not
say what he felt, was somehow not able to bring it out  — that this was like 
being in a monster
movie,  but  it  wasn't.  The  Mummy had looked different in some ways . . . 
ways that confirmed
its  essential  reality.  The  same  was  true  of  the  Werewolf  — he could 
testify to that because he
had  seen  it  in  a  paralyzing  close-up  no  film,  not  even  one  in  3-D, 
 allowed,  he  had  had  his
hands  in  the  wiry  underbrush  of  Its  tangled  pelt,  he  had  seen  a  
small,  baleful-orange firespot
(like a pompom!) in one of Its green eyes. These things were . . . well . . . 
they were dreams-
made-real. And once dreams became real, they escaped the power of the dreamer 
and became
their  own  deadly  things,  capable  of  independent  action.  The  silver  
slugs  had  worked  because
the  seven  of  them  had  been  unified  in  their  belief  that  they  would. 
 But  they  hadn't  killed  It.
And  next  time  It  would  approach  them  in  a  new  shape,  one  over  
which  silver  wielded  no
power.

Power,  power,  Ben  thought,  looking  at  Beverly.  It  was  okay  now;  her  
eyes  had  met  Bill's
again  and  they  were  looking  at  each  other  as  if  lost.  It  was  only  
for  a  moment,  but  to  Ben  it
seemed very long.

It  always comes  back  to  power.  I  love  Beverly  Marsh  and  she  has  
power  over  me.  She
loves  Bill  Denbrough  and  so  he  has  power  over  her.  But  — I think — 
he is coming to love
her. Maybe it was her face, how it looked when she said she couldn't help being 
a girl. Maybe
it was seeing one breast for just a second. Maybe just the way she looks 
sometimes when the
light  is  right,  or  her  eyes.  Doesn't  matter.  But  if  he's  starting  
to  love  her,  she's  starting  to
have power over him. Superman has power, except when there's Kryptonite around. 
Batman
has power, even though he can't fly or see through walls. My mom has power over 
me, and
her boss down in the mill has power over her. Everyone has some . . . except 
maybe for link
kids and babies.

Then  he  thought  that  even  little  kids  and  babies  had  power;  they  
could  cry  until  you  had  to
do something to shut them up.

'Ben?' Beverly asked, looking back at him. 'Cat got your tongue?'

'Huh? No. I was thinking about power. The power of the slugs.'
Bill was looking at him closely.

'I was wondering where that power came from,' Ben said.

'Ih-Ih-It  —  '  Bill  began,  and  then  shut  his  mouth.  A  thoughtful,  
vague  expression  drifted
over his face.

'I really have to go,' Beverly said. 'I'll see you all, huh?'

'Sure, come on down tomorrow,' Stan said. 'We're going to break Eddie's other 
arm.'
They all laughed. Eddie pretended to throw his aspirator at Stan.

'Bye, then,' Beverly said, and boosted herself up and out.

Ben  looked  at  Bill  and  saw  that  he  hadn't  joined  in  the  laughter.  
That  thoughtful  expression
was still on his face, and Ben knew you would have to call his name two or 
three times before
he  would  answer.  He  knew  what  Bill  was  thinking  about;  he  would  be  
thinking  about  it
himself  in  the  days  ahead.  Not  all  the  time,  no.  There  would  be  
clothes  to  hang  out  and  take
in   for his mother, games of tag and guns in the Barrens, and, during a rainy 
spell the first four
days  of  August,  the  seven  of  them  would  go  on  a  mad  Parcheesi  jag  
at  Richie  Tozier's  house,
making  blockades,  sending  each  other  back  with  great  abandon,  
deliberating  exactly  how  to


split  the  roll  of  the  dice  while  rain  dripped  and  ran  outside.  His  
mother  would  announce  to
him  that  she  believed  Pat  Nixon  was  the  prettiest  woman  in  America,  
and  be  horror-struck
when  Ben  opted  for  Marilyn  Monroe  (except  for  the  color  of  her  
hair,  he  thought  that  Bev
looked  like  Marilyn  Monroe).  There  would  be  time  to  eat  as  many  
Twinkies  and  Ring-Dings
and Devil Dogs as he could get his hands on, and time to sit on the  back porch 
reading  Lucky
Starr  and  the  Moons  of  Mercury.  There would be time for all of those 
things while the wound
on  his  chest  and  belly  healed  to  a  scab  and  began  to  itch,  because 
 life  went  on  and  at  eleven,
although  bright  and  apt,  he  held  no  real  sense  of  perspective.  He  
could  live  with  what  had
happened in the house on Neibolt Street. The world was, after all, full of 
wonders.

But  there  would  be  odd  moments  of  time  when  he  pulled  the  questions 
 out  again  and
examined them: The power of the silver, the power of the slugs — where does 
power like that
come from? Where does any power come from? How do you get it? How do you use 
it?

It  seemed  to  him  that  their  lives  might  depend  on  those  questions.  
One  night  as  he  was
falling  asleep,  the  rain  a  steady  lulling  patter  on  the  roof  and  
against  the  windows,  it  occurred
to  him  that  there  was  another  question,  perhaps  the  only  question.  
It  had some real shape; he
had  nearly  seen  it.  To  see  the  shape  was  to  see  the  secret.  Was  
that  also  true  of  power?
Perhaps  it  was.  For  wasn't  it  true  that  power,  like  It,  was  a  
shape-changer?  It  was  a  baby
crying  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  it  was  an  atomic  bomb,  it  was  
a  silver  slug,  it  was  the  way
Beverly looked at Bill and the way Bill looked back.

What, exactly what, was power, anyway?

12

Nothing much happened for the next two weeks.


'You got to lose

You can't win all the time.
You got to lose

You can't win all the time, what'd I say?

I know, pretty baby,

I see trouble comin down the line.'

— John Lee Hooker,
'You Got to Lose'


April 6th, 1985

Tell  you  what,  friends  and  neighbors  —  I'm  drunk  tonight.  Fuck-drunk. 
 Rye  whiskey.  Went
down  to  Wally's  and  got  started,  went  to  the  greenfront  down  on  
Center  Street  half  an  hour
before  they  closed,  and  bought  a  fifth of rye. I know what I'm up to. 
Drink cheap tonight, pay
dear  tomorrow.  So  here  he  sits,  one  drunk  nigger  in  a  public  
library  after  closing,  with  this
book open in front of me and the bottle of Old Kentucky on my left. Tell the 
truth and shame
the  devil,'  my  mom  used  to  say,  but  she  forgot  to  tell  me  that  
sometimes  you  can't  shame  Mr
Splitfoot  sober.  The  Irish  know,  but  of  course  they're  God's  white  
niggers  and  who  knows,
maybe they're a step ahead.

Want  to  write  about  drink  and  the  devil.  Remember   Treasure  Island?  
The old seadog at
The Admiral Benbow. 'We'll do 'em yet, Jacky!' I bet the bitter old fuck even 
believed it. Full
of rum — or rye — you can believe anything.

Drink and the devil. Okay.

Amuses  me  sometimes  to  think  how  long  I'd  last if  I  actually  
published  some  of  this  stuff  I
write  in  the  dead  of  night.  If  I  flashed  some  of  the  skeletons  in  
Derry's  closet.  There  is  a
library  Board  of  Directors.  Eleven  of  them.  One  is  a  seventy-year-old 
 writer  who  suffered  a
stroke  two  years  ago  and  who  now  often  needs  help  to  find  his  
place  on  each  meeting's
printed  agenda  (and  who  has  sometimes  been  observed  picking  large  dry 
 boogers  out  of  his
hairy  nostrils  and  placing  them  carefully  in  his  ear,  as  if  for  
safe-keeping).  Another  is  a  pushy
woman  who  came  here  from  New  York  with  her  doctor  husband  and  who  
talks  in  a  constant,
whiny   monologue   about   how   provincial   Derry   is,   how   no   one   
here   understands   THE
JEWISH EXPERIENCE and how one has to go to Boston to buy a skirt one would care 
to be
seen  in.  Last  time  this  anorexic  babe  spoke  to  me  without  the  
services  of  an  intermediary  was
during  the  Board's  Christmas  party  about  a  year  and  a  half  ago.  She 
 had  consumed  a  pretty
large   amount   of   gin,   and   asked   me   if   anyone   in   Derry   
understood   THE   BLACK
EXPERIENCE.  I  had  also  consumed  a  pretty  large  amount  of  gin,   and   
answered:   'Mrs
Gladry, Jews may be a great mystery, but niggers are understood the whole world 
round.' She
choked  on  her  drink,  whirled  around  so  sharply  that  her  panties  were 
 momentarily  visible
under  her  flaring  skirt  (not  a  very  interesting  view;  would  that  it  
had  been  Carol  Danner!),
and so ended my last informal conversation with Mrs Ruth Gladry. No great loss.

The other members of the Board are the descendants of the lumber barons. Their 
support of
the library is an act of inherited expiation; they raped the woods and now care 
for these books
the  way  a  libertine  might  decide,  in  his  middle  age,  to  provide  for 
 the  gaily  gotten  bastards  of
his  youth.  It  was  their  grandfathers  and  great-grandfathers  who  
actually  spread  the  legs  of  the
forests  north  of  Derry  and  Bangor  and  raped  those  green-gowned  
virgins  with  their  axes  and
peaveys.  They  cut  and  slashed  and  strip -timbered  and  never  looked  
back.  They  tore  the
hymen  of  those  great  forests  open  when  Grover  Cleveland  was  President 
 and  had  pretty  well
finished  the  job  by  the  time  Woodrow  Wilson  had  his  stroke.  These  
lace-ruffled  ruffians
raped  the  great  woods,  impregnated  them  with  a  litter  of  slash  and  
junk  spruce,  and  changed
Derry  from  a  sleepy  little  ship-building  town  into  a  booming  
honky-tonk  where  the  ginmills
never   closed   and   the   whores   turned   tricks   all   night   long.   
One   old   campaigner,   Egbert
Thoroughgood,  now  ninety-three,  told  me  of  taking  a  slat-thin  
prostitute  in  a  crib  on  Baker
Street  (a  street  which  no  longer  exists;  middle -class  apartment  
housing  stands  quietly  where
Baker Street once boiled and brawled).

'I  only  realized  after  I  spent  m'spunk  in  her  that  she  was  laying  
in  a  pool  of  jizzum  maybe

an  inch  deep.  Stuff  had  just  about  gone  to  jelly.  "Girl,"  I  says,  
"ain't  you  never  cared  for
y'self?" She looks down and says, "I'll put on a new sheet if you want to go 
again. There's two
in  the  cu'bud  down  the  hall,  I  think.  I  knows  pretty  much  what  I'm 
 layin  in  until  nine  or  ten,
but by midnight my cunt's so numb it might's well be in Ellsworth."'


So  that  was  Derry  right  through  the  first  twenty  or  so  years  of  
the  twentieth  century:  all
boom  and  booze  and  balling.  The  Penobscot  and  the  Kenduskeag  were  
full  of  floating  logs
from  ice-out  in  April  to  ice-in  in  November.  The  business  began  to  
slacken  off  in  the  twenties
without  the  Great  War  or  the  hardwoods  to  feed  it,  and  it  staggered 
 to  a  stop  during  the
Depression.  The  lumber  barons  put  their  money  in  those  New  York  or  
Boston  banks  that  had
survived the Crash and left Derry's economy to live  — or die  — on its own. 
They retreated to
their  gracious  houses  on  West  Broadway  and  sent  their  children  to  
private  schools  in  New
Hampshire,   Massachusetts,   and   New   York.   And   lived   on   their   
interest   and   political
connections.

What's  left  of  their  supremacy  seventy-some  years  after  Egbert  
Thoroughgood  spent  his
love with a dollar whore in a spermy Baker Street bed are empty wildwoods in 
Penobscot and
Aroostook  Counties  and  the  great  Victorian  houses  which  stand  for  two 
 blocks  along  West
Broadway  .  .  .  and  my  library,  of  course.  Except  those  good  folks  
from  West  Broadway
would  take  'my  library'  away  from  me  in  jig  time  (pun  definitely  
intended)  if  I  published
anything  about  the  Legion  of  Decency,  the  fire  at  the  Black  Spot,  
the  execution  of  the
Bradley Gang . . . or the affair of Claude Heroux and the Silver Dollar.

The  Silver  Dollar  was  a  beerjoint,  and  what  may  have  been  the  
queerest  mass  murder  in
the  entire  history  of  America  took  place  there  in  September of 1905. 
There are still a few old
timers   in   Derry   who   claim   to   remember   it,   but   the   only   
account   that   I   really   trust   is
Thoroughgood's. He was eighteen when it happened.

Thoroughgood  now  lives  in  the  Paulson  Nursing  Home.  He's  toothless,  
and  his  St  John's
Valley   Franco/Downcast   accent   is   so   thick   that   probably   only   
another   old   Mainer   could
understand  what  he  was  saying  if  his  talk  were  written  down  
phonetically.  Sandy  Ives,  the
folklorist  from  the  University  of  Maine  whom  I  have  mentioned  previo 
usly  in  these  wild
pages, helped me to translate my audio tapes.

Claude  Heroux  was,  according  to  Thoroughgood,  'Un  bat  Canuck  
sonofa-whore  widdin
eye that'd roll adju like a mart's in dem oonlight.'

(Translation:  'One  bad  Canuck  son  of  a  whore  with  an  eye  that  would 
 roll  at  you  like  a
mare's in the moonlight.')

Thoroughgood said that he  — and everyone else who had worked with Heroux  — 
believed
the  man  was  as  sly  as  a  chicken-stealing  dog  .  .  .  which  made  his 
 hatchet-wielding foray into
the  Silver  Dollar  all  the  more  startling.  It  was  not  in  character.  
Up  until  then,  lumbermen  in
Derry had believed Heroux's talents ran more to lighting fires in the woods.

The  summer  of  '05  was  long  and  hot  and  there  had  been  many  fires  
in  the  woods.  The
biggest  of  them,  which  Heroux  later  admitted  he  set  by  simply  
putting  a  lighted  candle  in  the
middle  of  a  pile  of  woodchips  and  kindling,  happened  in  Haven's  Big  
Injun  Woods.  It  burned
twenty  thousand  acres  of  prune  hardwood,  and  you  could  smell  the  
smoke  of  it  thirty-five
miles away as the horse-drawn trollies breasted Up-Mile Hill in Derry.

In  the  spring  of  that  year  there  had  been  some  brief  talk  about  
unionizing.  There  were  four
lumbermen  involved  in  organizing  (not  that  there  was  much  to  
organize;  Maine  workingmen
were  anti-union  then  and  are,  for  the  large  part,  anti-union  now),  
and  one  of  the  four  was
Claude  Heroux,  who  probably  saw  his  union  activities  mostly  as  a  
chance  to  talk  big  and
spend  a  lot  of  time  drinking  down  on  Baker  and  Exchange  Streets.  
Heroux and the other three
called  themselves  'organizers';  the  lumber  barons  called  them  
'ringleaders.'  A  proclamation
nailed   to   the   cooksheds   in   lumber   camps   from   Monroe   to   
Haven   Village   to   Sumner
Plantation  to  Millinocket  informed  lumbermen  that  any  man  overheard  
talking  union  would
be fired off the job immediately.

In May of that year there was a brief strike up near Trapham Notch, and 
although the strike
was  broken  in  short  order,  both  by  scabs  and  by  'town  constables'  
(and  that  was  rather
peculiar,   you   understand,   since   there   were   nearly   thirty   'town  
 constables'   swinging   axe-


handles and creasing skulls, but before that day in May, there hadn't been so 
much as a single
constable in Trapham Notch  —  which had a population of 79 in the census of 
1900  —  so far
as  anyone  knew),  Heroux  and  his  organizing  friends  considered  it  a  
great  victory  for  their
cause. Accordingly, they came down to Derry to get drunk and to do some more 
'organizing' .

.  .  or  'ringleading,'  depending  on  whose  side  you  favored.  Whicheve 
r,  it  must  have  been  dry
work.  They  hit  most  of  the  bars  in  Hell's  Half-Acre,  finishing  up  
in  The  Sleepy  Silver  Dollar,
arms   around   each   other's   shoulders,   pissing-down-your-leg   drunk,   
alternating   union   songs
with   bathetic   tunes   like   'My   Mother's   Eyes   Are  Looking  Down  
from  Heaven',  although  I
myself  think  any  mother  looking  down  from  there  and  seeing  her  son  
in  such  a  state  might
well have been excused for turning away.

According  to  Egbert  Thoroughgood,  the  only  reason  anyone  could  figure  
for  Heroux  being
in  the  movement  at  all  was  Davey  Hartwell.  Hartwell  was  the  chief  
'organizer'  or  'ringleader,'
and Heroux was in love with him. Nor was he the only one; most of the men in 
the movement
loved  Hartwell  deeply  and  passionately,  with  that  proud  love  men  save 
 for  those  of  their  own
sex  who  possess  a  magnetism  that  seems  to  approach  divinity.  'Davvey  
Ardwell  wadda  main
who walk lak e ohn heffa de worl an haddim a daylah on de resp,' Thoroughgood 
said.

(Translation:  'Davey  Hartwell  was  a  man  who  walked  like  he  owned  
half  of  the  world  and
had him a deadlock on the rest.')

'He  wadda  great  main  inniz  way;  no  use  sayn  he  woint.  He  haddim  
foce, he haddim some

big  dinnity  iniz  walk  anniz  talk.  Ainno  use  sayin  he  wadda  good  
main.  Just  trine  dellya  he
wadda great un.'

Heroux  followed  Hartwell  into  the  organizing  business  the  way  he  
would  have  followed

him  if  he  had  decided  to  go  for  a  shipbuilder  up  in  Brewer  or  
down  in  Bath,  or  building  the
Seven  Trestles  over  in  Vermont,  or  trying  to  bring  back  the  Pony  
Express  out  west,  for  that
matter.  Heroux  was  sly  and  he  was  mean,  and  I  suppose  that  in  a  
novel  that  would  preclude
any  good  qualities  at  all.  But  sometimes,  when  a  man  has  spent  a  
life  being  distrusted  and
distrustful,  being  a  loner  (or  a  Loser)  both  by  choice  and  by  
reason  of  society's  opinions  of
him, he can find a friend or a lover and simply live for that person, the way a 
dog lives for its
master. That's the way it appeared to have been between Heroux and Hartwell.

Anyway,  there  were  four  of  them  who  spent  that  night  in  the  
Brentwood  Arms  Hotel,
which   was   then   called   the   Floating   Dog   by   the   lumbermen   
(the   reason   why   is   lost   in
obscurity  —  not  even  Egbert  Thoroughgood  remembers).  Four  checked  in;  
none  checked  out.
One  of  them,  Andy  DeLesseps,  was  never seen again; for all history tells 
he might have spent
the  rest  of  his  life  living  in  pleasant  ease  in  Portsmouth.  But  
somehow  I  doubt  it.  Two  of  the
other  'ringleaders,'  Amsel  Bickford  and  Davey  Hartwell  himself,  were  
found  floating  face-
down  in  the  Kenduskeag.  Bickford  was  missing  his  head;  someone  had  
taken  it  off  with  the
swipe  of  a  woodsman's  two-hander.  Both  of  Hartwell's  legs  were  gone,  
and  those  who  found
him  swore  that  they  had  never  seen  such  an  expression  of  pain  and  
horror  on  a  human  face.
Something  had  distended  his  mouth,  stuffing  out  his  cheeks,  and  when  
his  discoverers  turned
him  over  and  spread  his  lips,  seven  of  his  toes  fell  out  onto  the  
mud.  Some  thought  he  might
have  lost  the  other  three  during  his  years  working  in  the  woods;  
others  held the opinion that
he might have swallowed them before he died.

Pinned to the back of each man's shirt was a paper with the word UNION on it.

Claude  Heroux  was  never  brought  to  trial  for  what  happened  in  the  
Silver  Dollar  on  the
night of September  9th,  1905,  so  there's  no  way  of  knowing  exactly  
how  he  escaped  the  fate
of  the  others  that  night  in  May.  We  could  make  assumptions;  he  had  
been  on  his  own  a  long
time,  had  learned  how  to  jump  fast,  had  perhaps  developed  the  knack  
some  cur-dogs have of
getting  out  just  before  real  trouble  develops.  But  why  didn't  he  
take  Hartwell  with  him?  Or
was  he  perhaps  taken  into  the  woods  with  the  rest  of  the  
'agitators'?  Maybe  they  were  saving
him  for  last,  and  he  was  able  to  get  away  even  while  Hartwell's  
screams  (which would have


grown  muffled  as  they  jammed  his  toes  into  his  mouth)  were  echoing  
in  the  dark  and  scaring
birds  off  their  roosts.  There's  no  way  of  knowing,  not  for  sure,  
but  that  last  feels  right  to  my
heart.

Claude  Heroux  became  a  ghost-man.  He  would  come  strolling  into  a  
camp  in  the  St  John's
Valley,  line  up  at  the  cook-shed with the rest of the loggers, get a bowl 
of stew, eat it, and be
gone before anyone realized he wasn't one of the topping gang. Weeks after that 
he'd show up
in  a  Winterport  beerjoint,  talking  union  and  swearing  he'd  have  his  
revenge  on  the  men  that
had  murdered  his  friends  —  Hamilton  Tracker,  William  Mueller,  and  
Richard  Bowie  were
the  names  he  mentioned  the  most  frequently.  All  of  them  lived  in  
Derry,  and  their  gabled
gambrelled  cupola-ed  houses  stand  on  West  Broadway  to  this  day.  Years 
 later,  they  and  their
descendants would fire the Black Spot.

That there were people who would have liked Claude Heroux put out of the way 
cannot be
doubted,  particularly  after  the  fires  started  in  June  of  that  year.  
But  although  Heroux  was  seen
frequently, he was quick and had an animal's awareness of danger. So far as I 
have been able
to  find  out,  no  official  warrant  was  ever  sworn  out  against  him,  
and  the  police  never  took  a
hand.  Maybe  there  were  fears  about  what  Heroux  might  say  if  he  was  
brought  to  trial  for
arson.

Whatever  the  reasons,  the  woods  around  Derry  and  Haven  burned  all  
that  hot  summer.
Children  disappeared,  there  were  more  fights  and  murders  than  usual,  
and  a  pall  of  fear  as
real as the smoke you could smell from the top of Up-Mile Hill lay over the 
town.

The  rains  finally  came  on  September  first,  and  it  rained  for  a  
solid  week.  Downtown  Derry
was  flooded  out,  which  was  not  unusual,  but  the  big  houses  on  West  
Broadway  were  high
above  downtown,  and  in  some  of  those  big  houses  there  must  have  
been  sighs  of  relief.  Let
the  crazy  Canuck  hide  out  in  the  woods  all  whiter,  if  that's  what  
he  wants,  they  might  have
said. His work's done for this summer, and we'll get him before the roots dry 
next June.

Then  came  September  9th.  I  cannot  explain  what  happened;  Thoroughgood  
cannot  explain
it; so far as I know, no one can. I can only relate the events which occurred.

The  Sleepy  Silver  Dollar  was  full  of  loggers  drinking  beer.  Outside,  
it  was  drawing  down
toward  misty  dark.  The  Kenduskeag  was  high  and  silver-sullen,  filling  
its  channel  from  bank
to  bank,  and  according  to  Egbert  Thoroughgood,  a  fallish  wind  was  
blowin  —  the  kine  dat
alms  fine  de  hole  in  y'paints  and  blow  strayduppa  cracka  yo  ais.'  
The  streets  were  quagmires.
There  was  a  card  game  going  on  at  one  of  the  tables  in  the  back  
of  the  room.  They  were
William  Mueller's  men.  Mueller  was  part  owner  of  the  GS&WM  rail  line 
 as  well  as  a  lumber
potentate  who  owned  millions  of  acres  of  prime  timber,  and  the  men  
who  were  playing  poker
around  an  oilcloth-covered  table  in  the  Dollar  that  night  were  
part-time  lumbermen,  part-time
railroad   bulls,   and   full   time   trouble.   Two   of   them,   Tinker   
McCutcheon   and   Floyd
Calderwood,  had  done  jail-time.  With  them  were  Lathrop  Rounds  (his  
nickname,  as  obscure
as  The  Floating  Dog  Hotel,  was  El  Katook),  David  'Stugley'  Grenier,  
and  Eddie  King  — a
bearded  man  whose  spectacles  were  almost  as  fat  as  his  gut.  It  
seems  very  likely  that  they
were  at  least  some  of  the  men  who  had  spent  the  last  two  and  a  
half  months  keeping  an  eye
out for Claude Heroux. It seems just as likely  — although there is not a shred 
of proof  — that
they were in on the little cutting party in May when Hartwell and Bickford were 
laid low.

The  bar  was  crowded,  Thoroughgood  said;  dozens  of  men  were  bellied  
up  there,  drinking
beer and eating bar lunches and dripping onto the sawdust-covered dirt floor.

The  door  opened  and  in  came  Claude  Heroux.  He  had  a  woodsman's  
double-bitted  axe  in
his  hand.  He  stepped  up  to  the  bar  and  elbowed  himself  a  place.  
Egbert  Thoroughgood  was
standing  on  his  left;  he  said  that  Heroux  smelled  like  a  polecat  
stew.  The  barman  brought
Heroux a schooner of beer, two hard-cooked eggs in a bowl, and a shaker of 
salt. Heroux paid
him  with  a  two-dollar  bill  and  put  his  change  —  a  dollar-eighty-five 
 —  into  one  of  the  flap


pockets  of  his  lumberman's  jacket.  He  salted  his  eggs  and  ate  them.  
He  salted  his  beer,  drank
it off, and uttered a belch.

'More  room  out  than  there  is  in,  Claude,'  Thoroughgood  said,  just  as 
 if  half  the  enforcers  in
northern Maine hadn't been on the prod for Heroux all that summer.

'You  know  that's  the  truth,'  Heroux  said,  except,  being  a  Canuck,  
what  he  probably  said
came out sounding more like 'You know dot da troot.'

He ordered himself another schooner, drank up, and belched again. Talk at the 
bar went on;
there  was  no  silence  like  the  ones  in  the  western  movies  when  the  
good  guy  or  the  bad  guy
pushes  his  way  through  the  batwings  and  makes  his  ominous  way  to  
the  bar.  Several  people
called  to  him.  Claude  nodded  and  waved,  but  he  didn't  smile.  
Thoroughgood  said  he  looked
like a man who was half in a dream. At the table in back, the poker game went 
on. El Katook
was dealing. No one bothered to tell any of the players that Claude Heroux was 
in the bar . . .
although,  since  their  table  was  no  more  than  twenty  feet  away,  and  
since  Claude's  name  was
hollered  more  than  once  by  people  who  knew  him,  it  is  hard  to  know 
 how  they  could  have
gone on playing, unaware of his potentially murderous presence. But that is 
what occurred.

After  he  finished  his  second  schooner  of  beer,  Heroux  excused  himself 
 to  Thoroughgood,
picked  up  his  two-hander,  and  went  back  to  the  table  where  Mueller's 
 men  were  playing five-
card stud. Then he started cutting.

Floyd  Calderwood  had  just  poured  himself  a  glass  of  rye  whiskey  and  
was  setting  the
bottle  back  down  when  Heroux  arrived  and  chopped  Calderwood's  hand  
off  at  the  wrist.
Calderwood  looked  at  his  hand  and  screamed;  it  was  still  holding  the 
 bottle  but  all  of  a
sudden  wasn't  attached   to   anything   but  wet  gristle  and   trailing   
veins.  For  a   moment   the
severed  hand  clutched  the  bottle  even  tighter,  and  then  it  fell  off  
and  lay  on  the  table  like  a
dead spider. Blood spouted from his wrist.

At  the  bar,  somebody  called  for  more  beer  and  someone  else  asked  
the  bartender,  whose
name  was  Jonesy,  if  he  was  still  dying  his  hair.  'Never  dyed  it,'  
Jonesy  said  in  an  ill-tempered
way; he was vain of his hair.

'Met  a  whore  down  at  Ma  Courtney's  who  said  what  grows  around  your  
pecker  is  just  as
white as snow,' the fellow said.

'She was a liar,' Jonesy replied.

'Drop  your  pants  and  let's  us  see,'  said  a  lumberman  named  Falkland, 
 with  whom  Egbert
Thoroughgood  had  been  matching  for  drinks  before  Heroux  came  in.  This 
 provoked  general
laughter.

Behind  them,  Floyd  Calderwood  was  shrieking.  A  few  of  the  men  
leaning  against  the  bar
took  a  casual  look  around  in  time  to  see  Claude  Heroux  bury  his  
woodsman's  axe  in  Tinker
McCutcheon's  head.  Tinker  was  a  big  man  with  a  black  beard  going  
gray.  He  got  halfway  up,
blood  pouring  down  his  face  in  freshets,  then  sat  down  again.  Heroux 
 pulled  the  axe  out  of
his  head.  Tinker  started  to  get  up  again,  and  Heroux  slung  the  axe  
sideways,  burying it in his
back.  It  made  a  sound,  Thoroughgood  said,  like  a  load  of  laundry  
being  dropped  on  a  rug.
Tinker flopped over the table, his cards spraying out of his hand.

The  others  players  were  hollering  and  bellowing.  Calderwood,  still  
shrieking,  was  trying  to
pick  up  his  right  hand  with  his  left  as  his  life's  blood  ran  out  
of  his  stump  of  a  wrist  in  a
steady  stream.  Stugley  Grenier  had  what  Thoroughgood  called  a  
'clutch-pistol'  (meaning  a
gun in a shoulder-holster)  and  he  was  grabbing  for  it  with  no  success 
whatsoever. Eddie King
tried  to  get  up  and  fell  right  out  of  his  chair  on  his  back.  
Before  he  could  get  up,  Heroux  was
standing  astride  him,  the  axe  slung  up  over  his  head.  King  screamed  
and  held  up  both  hands
in a warding-off gesture.

'Please, Claude, I just got married last month!'  King screamed.

The  axe  came  down,  its  head  almost  disappearing  in  King's  ample  gut. 
 Blood  sprayed  all
the  way  up  to  the  Dollar's  beamed  roof.  Eddie  began  to  crawfish  on  
the  floor.  Claude  pulled


the  axe  out  of  him the way a good woodsman will pull his axe out of a 
softwood tree, kind of
rocking  it  back  and  forth  to  loosen  the  clinging  grip  of  the  sappy  
wood.  When  it  was  free  he
slung  it  up  over  his  head.  He  brought  it  down  again  and  Eddie  King 
 stopped  screaming.
Claude  Heroux  wasn't  done  with  him,  however;  he  began  to  chop  King  
up  like  kindling-
wood.

At  the  bar,  conversation  had  turned  to  what  sort  of  winter  lay  
ahead.  Veraon  Stanchfield,  a
farmer  from  Palmyra,  claimed  it  would  be  a  mild  one  — fall rain uses 
up winter snow was his
scripture.  Alfie  Naugler,  who  had  a  farm  out  on  the  Naugler  Road  in 
 Derry  (it  is  gone  now;
where  Alfie  Naugler  once  grew  his  peas  and  beans  and  beets,  the  
Interstate  extension  now
runs  its  8.8  mile,  six-lane  course),  begged  to  disagree.  Alfie  
claimed  the  coming  winter  was
going  to  be  a  jeezer.  He  had  seen  as  many  as  eight  rings  on  some  
of  the  mohair  caterpillars,
he  said,  an  unheard-of  number.  Another  man  held  out  for  ice;  another 
 for  mud.  The  Buzzard
of   '01   was   duly   recalled.   Jonesy   sent  schooners  of  beer  and  
bowls  of  hardcooked  eggs
skidding down the bar. Behind them the screaming went on and the blood flowed 
in rivers.

At  this  point  in  my  questioning  of  Egbert  Thoroughgood,  I  turned  off 
 my  cassette  recorder
and  asked  him:  'How  did  it  happen?  Are  you  saying  you  didn't  know  
it  was  going  on,  or  that
you knew but you let it go on, or just what?'

Thoroughgood's  chin  sank  down  to  the  top  button  of  his  food-spotted  
vest.  His  eyebrows
drew  together.  He  said  nothing  for  a  long,  long  time.  Outside  it  
was  winter,  and  I  could  hear

—  very  faintly  —  the  yells  and  laughter  of  the  children  sliding  
down  the  big  hill  in  McCarron
Park.  The  silence  in  Thoroughgood's  room,  small,  cramped,  and  
medicinal-smelling, spun out
so long that I was about to  repeat my question, when he replied: 'We knew. But 
it didn't seem
to  matter.  It  was  like  politics,  in  a  way.  Ayuh,  like  that.  Like  
town  business.  Best  let  people
who  understand  politics  take  care  of  that  and  people  who  understand  
town  business  take  care
of that. Such things be best done if working men don't mix in.'

'Are you really talking about fate and just afraid to come out and say so?' I 
asked suddenly.
The  question  was  simply  jerked  out  of  me,  and  I  certainly  did  not  
expect  Thoroughgood,  who
was old and slow and unlettered, to answer it . . . but he did, with no 
surprise at all.

'Ayuh,' he said. 'Mayhap I am.'

While  the  men  at  the  bar  went  on  talking  about  the  weather,  Claude  
Heroux  went  on
cutting.   Stugley   Grenier   had   finally   managed   to   clear   his   
clutch-pistol.   The   axe   was
descending  for  another  chop  at  Eddie  King,  who  was  by  then  in  
pieces.  The  bullet  Grenier
fired struck the head of the axe and richocheted off with a spark and a whine.

El  Katook  got  to  his  feet  and  started  backing  away.  He  was  still  
holding  the  deck  he  had
been  dealing  from;  cards  were  fluttering  off  the  bottom  and  onto  the 
 floor.  Claude  came  after
him.  El  Katook  held  out  his  hands.  Stugley  Grenier  got  off  another  
round,  which  didn't  come
within ten feet of Heroux.

'Stop,  Claude,'  El  Katook  said.  Thoroughgood  said  it  appeared  like  
Katook  was  trying  to
smile. 'I wasn't with them. I didn't mix in at all.'

Heroux only growled.

'I  was  in  Millinocket,'  El  Katook  said,  his  voice  starting  to  rise  
toward  a  scream. I'  was in

Millinocket, I swear it on my mother's name! Ask anybody if you don't believe 
meeeee . . . '
Claude  raised  the  dripping  axe,  and  El  Katook  sprayed  the  rest  of  
the  cards  into  his  face.

The  axe  came  down,  whistling.  El  Katook  ducked.  The  axe-head  buried  
itself  in  the  planking

that formed the Silver Dollar's back wall. El Katook tried to run. Claude 
hauled the axe out of
the  wall  and  poked  it  between his  ankles.  El  Katook  went  sprawling.  
Stugley  Grenier  shot  at
Heroux   again,   this   time   having   a   bit   more   luck.   He   had   
been   aiming   at   the   crazed
lumberman's head; the bullet struck home in the fleshy part of Heroux's thigh.

Meantime,  El  Katook  was  crawling  busily  toward  the  door  with  his  
hair  hanging  in  his

face.  Heroux  swung  the  axe  again,  snarling  and   gibbering,   and   a   
moment   later   Katook's


severed  head  was  rolling  across  the  sawdust-strewn  floor,  the  tongue  
popped  bizarrely  out
between  the  teeth.  It  rolled  to  a  stop  by  the  booted  foot  of  a  
lumberman  named  Varney,  who
had  spent  most  of  the  day  in  the  Dollar  and  who,  by  then,  was  so  
exquisitely  slopped  that  he
didn't know if he was on land or at sea. He kicked the head away without 
looking down to see
what it was, and hollered for Jonesy to run him down another beer.

El  Katook  crawled  another  three  feet,  blood  spraying  from  his  neck  
in  a  high-tension  jet,
before  he  realized  he  was  dead  and  collapsed.  That  left  Stugley.  
Heroux  turned  on  him,  but
Stugley had run into the outhouse and locked the door.

Heroux  chopped  his  way  in,  hollering  and  blabbering  and  raving,  
slobber  falling  from  bis

jaws.  When  he  got  in  Stugley  was  gone,  although  the  cold,  leaky  
little  room  was  windowless.
Heroux  stood  there  for  a  moment,  head  lowered,  powerful  arms  slimed  
and  splattered  with
blood, and then, with a roar, he flipped up the lid of the three-holer. He was 
just in time to see
Stugley's  boots  disappearing  under  the  ragged  board  skirting  of  the  
outhouse  wall.  Stugley
Grenier  ran  screaming  down  Exchange  Street  in  the  rain,  beshitted  
from  top  to  toe,  crying
that  he  was  being  murdered.  He  survived  the  cutting  party  in  the  
Silver  Dollar  — he was the
only one who did  —  but  after  three  months  of  listening  to  jokes  about 
 his  method  of  escape,
he quitted the Derry area forever.

Heroux  stepped  out  of  the  toilet  and  stood  in  front  of  it  like  a  
bull  after  a  charge,  head
down,  his  axe  held  in  front  of  him.  He  was  puffing  and  blowing  and 
 covered  with  gore  from
head to foot.

'Shut  the  door,  Claude,  that  shitpot  stinks  to  high  heaven,'  
Thoroughgood  said.  Claude
dropped his axe on the floor and did as he had been asked. He walked over to 
the card-strewn
table  where  his  victims  had  been  sitting,  kicking  one  of  Eddie  
King's  severed  legs  out  of  his
way.  Then  he  simply  sat  down  and  put  his  head  in  his  arms.  The  
drinking  and  conversation at
the  bar  went  on.  Five  minutes  later  more  men  began  to  pile  in,  
three  or  four  sheriffs  deputies
among them (the one in charge was Lal Machen's father, and when he saw the mess 
he had a
heart attack and had to be taken away to Dr Shratt's office).  Claude Heroux 
was led away. He
was docile when they took him, more asleep than awake.

That  night  the  bars  all  up  and  down  Exchange  and  Baker  Streets  
boomed  and  hollered  with
news  of  the  slaughter.  A  righteous  drunken  sort  of  fury  began  to  
build  up,  and when the bars
closed  better  than  seventy  men  headed  downtown  toward  the  jail  and  
the  court-house. They
had torches and lanterns. Sonic were carrying guns, some had axes, some had 
peavies.

The County Sheriff wasn't due from Bangor until the noon stage  the next day, 
so  he wasn't
there,  and  Goose  Machen  was  laid  up  in  Dr  Shratt's  infirmary  with  
his  heart  attack.  The  two
deputies  who  were  sitting  in  the  office  playing  cribbage  heard  the  
mob  coming  and  got  out  of
there  fast.  The  drunks  broke  in  and  dragged  Claude  Heroux  out  of  
his  cell.  He  didn't  protest
much; he seemed dazed, vacant.

They  carried  him  on  their  shoulders  like  a  football  hero;  down  to  
Canal  Street  they  carried
him,  and  there  they  lynched  him  from  an  old  elm  that  overhung  the  
Canal.  'He  was so  far
gone  that  he  didn't  kick  but  twice,'  Egbert  Thoroughgood  said.  It  
was,  so  far  as  the  town
records  show,  the  only  lynching  to  ever  take  place  in  this  part  of  
Maine.  And  almost  needless
to  say,  it  was  not  reported  in  the  Derry  News.  Many  of  those  who   
had  gone  on  drinking
unconcernedly  while  Heroux  went  about  his  business  in  the  Silver  
Dollar  were  in  the  necktie
party         that strung him up. By midnight their mood had changed.

I  asked  Thoroughgood  my  final  question:  had  he  seen  anyone  he  didn't 
 know  during that
day's   violent   activities?   Someone   who   struck   him   as   strange,   
out   of   place,   funny,   even
clownish?  Someone  who  would  have  been  drinking  at  the  bar  that  
afternoon,  someone  who
had  maybe  turned  into  one  of  the  rabble-rousers  that  night  as  the  
drinking  went  on  and  the
talk turned to lynching?


'Mayhap  there  was,'  Thoroughgood  replied.  He  was  tired  by  then,  
drooping,  ready  for  his
afternoon nap. 'It were a long time ago, mister. Long and long.'

'But you remember something,' I said.

'I  remember  thinkin  that  there  must  be  a  county  fair  up  Bangor  
way,'  Thoroughgood  said.  'I
was  having  a  beer  in  the  Bloody  Bucket  that  night.  The  Bucket  was  
about  six  doors  from  the
Silver  Dollar.  There  was  a  fella  in  there  .  .  .  comical  sort  of  
fella  .  .  .  doing  flips and rollovers

. . . jugglin glasses . . . tricks . . . put four dimes on his forrid and 
they'd stay right there . . .
comical, you know . . . '

His  bony  chin  had  sunk  to  his  chest  again.  He  was  going  to  sleep  
right  in  front  of  me.

Spittle began to  bubble  at  the  corners  of  his  mouth,  which  had  as  
many  tucks  and  wrinkles  as
a lady's change-purse.

'Seen him a few now' n thens since,' Thoroughgood said. 'Figure maybe he had 
such a good
time that night . . . that he decided to stick around.'

'Yeah. He's been around a long time,' I said.

His  only  response  was  a  weak  snore.  Thoroughgood  had  gone  to  sleep  
in  his  chair  by  the
window,  with  his  medicines  and  nostrums  lined  up  beside  him  on  the  
sill,  soldiers  of  old  age
at  muster.  I  turned  off  my  tape-recorder and just sat looking at him for 
a moment, this strange
time-traveller  from  the  year  1890  or  so,  who  remembered  when  there  
were  no  cars,  no
electric  lights,  no  airplanes,  no  state  of  Arizona.  Pennywise  had  
been  there,  guiding  them
down  the  path  toward  another  gaudy  sacrifice  —  just  one  more  in  
Derry's  long  history  of
gaudy  sacrifices.  That  one,  in  September  of  1905,  ushered  in  a  
heightened  period  of  terror
that would include the Easter-tide explosion of the Kitchener Ironworks the 
following year.

This  raises  some  interesting  (and,  for  all  I  know,  vitally  important) 
 questions.  What  does  It
really  eat,  for  instance?  I  know  that  some  of  the  children  have  
been  partially  eaten  — they
show bite-marks, at least  — but perhaps it is  we  who  drive  It  to  do 
that. Certainly we have all
been  taught  since  earliest  childhood  that  what  the  monster  does  when  
it  catches  you  in  the
deep  wood  is  eat  you.  That  is  perhaps  the  worst  thing  we  can  
conceive.  But  it's  really  faith
that  monsters  live  on,  isn't  it?  I  am  led   irresistibly  to  this  
conclusion:  Food  may  be  life,  but
the source of power is not food but faith. And who is more capable of a total 
act of faith than
a child?

But  there's  a  problem:  kids  grow  up.  In  the  church,  power  is  
perpetuated  and  renewed  by
periodic  ritualistic  acts.  In  Derry,  power  seems  to  be  perpetuated  
and  renewed  by  periodic
ritualistic acts, too. Can it be that It protects Itself by the simple fact 
that, as the children grow
into  the  adults,  they  become  either  incapable  of  faith  or  crippled  
by  a  sort  of  spiritual  and
imaginative arthritis?

Yes.  I  think  that's  the  secret  here.  And  if  I  make  the  calls,  how  
much  will  they  remember?
How  much  will  they  believe?  Enough  to  end  this  horror  once  and  for  
all,  or  only  enough  to
get  them  killed?  They  are  being  called  —  I  know  that  much.  Each  
murder  in  this  new  cycle
has  been  a  call.  We  almost  killed  It  twice,  and  in  the  end  we  
drove  It  deep  in  Its  warren  of
tunnels  and  stinking  rooms  under  the  city.  But  I  think  It  knows  
another  secret:  although  It
may  be  immortal  (or  almost  so),  we  are  not.  It  had  only  to  wait  
until  the  act  of  faith,  which
made   us   potential   monster-killers   as   well   as   sources   of   
power,   had   become   impossible.
Twenty-seven  years.  Perhaps  a  period  of  sleep  for  It,  as  short  and  
refreshing as  an  afternoon
nap    would be for us. And when It awakes, It is the same, but a third of our 
lives has gone by.
Our  perspectives  have  narrowed;  our  faith  in  the  magic  that  makes  
magic  possible,  has  worn
off like the shine on a new pair of shoes after a hard day's walking.

Why  call  us  back?  Why  not  just  let  us  die?  Because  we  nearly  
killed  It,  because  we

frightened It, I think. Because It wants revenge.

And  now,  now  that  we  no  longer  believe  in  Santa  Claus,  the  Tooth  
Fairy,  Hansel  and
Gretel, or the  troll under the bridge, It is ready for us.  Come on back,  It 
says.  Come on back,


let's finish our business in Derry. Bring your jacks and your marbles and your 
yo-yos! We'll
play. Come on back and we'll see if you remember the simplest thing of all: how 
it is to be
children, secure in belief and thus afraid of the dark.

On that one, at least I score a thousand per cent: I am frightened. So goddam 
frightened.


'It is not to be done. The seepage has
rotted out the curtain. The mesh

is decayed. Lo osen the flesh
from the machine, build no more

bridges. Through what air will you

fly to span the continents? Let the words
fall any way at all — that they may

hit love aslant. It will be a rare

visitation. They want to rescue too much,
the flood has done its work'

— William Carlos Williams,

Paterson

'Look and remember. Look upon this land,
Far, far across the factories and the grass.
Surely, there, surely they will let you pass.
Speak then and ask the forest and the loam.

What do you hear? What does the  land command?

The earth is taken: this is not your home.'

— Karl Shapiro,
'Travelogue for Exiles'


C H A P T E R  1 9

In the Watches of the Night

1

The Derry Public Library / 1:15 A.M.

When  Ben  Hanscom  finished  the  story  of  the  silver  slugs,  they  wanted 
 to  talk,  but  Mike  told
them  he  wanted  them  all  to  get  some  sleep.  'You've  had  enough  for  
now,'  he  said,  but  Mike
was  the  one  who  looked  as  if  he  had  had  enough;  his  face  was  
tired  and  drawn,  and  Beverly
thought he looked physically ill.

'But we're not done,' Eddie said. 'What about the rest of it? I still don't 
remember — '

'Mike's  r-r-right,'  Bill  said.  'Either  we'll  remember  or  we  w-won't.  
I  think  we  w-will. We've
remembered all that we nuh-need to.'

'Maybe all that's good for us?' Richie suggested.

Mike nodded. 'We'll meet tomorrow.' Then he glanced at the clock. 'Later today, 
I mean.'
'Here?' Beverly asked.

Mike  shook  his  head  slowly.  'I  suggest  we  meet  on  Kansas  Street.  
Where  Bill  used  to  hide

his bike.'

'We're going down into the Barrens,' Eddie said, and suddenly shivered.
Mike nodded again.

There  was  a  moment  of  quiet  while  they  looked  around  at  each  other. 
 Then  Bill  got  to  his
feet, and the others rose with him.

'I  want  you  all  to  be  careful  for  the  rest  of  the  night,'  Mike  
said.  'It's  been  here;  It  can  be
wherever  you  are.  But  this  meeting  has  made  me  feel  better.'  He  
looked  at  Bill.  'I'd  say  it  still
can be done, wouldn't you, Bill?'

Bill nodded slowly. 'Yes. I think it still can be done.'

'It  will  know  that,  too,'  Mike  said,  'and  It  will  do  whatever  It  
can  to  slug  the  odds  in  Its
favor.'

'What  do  we  do  if  It  shows  up?'  Richie  asked.  'Hold  our  noses,  
shut  our  eyes,  turn  around

three  times,  and  think  good  thoughts?  Puff  some  magic  dust  in  Its  
face?  Sing  old  Elvis
Presley songs? What?'

Mike  shook  his  head.  'If  I  could  tell  you  that,  there  would  be  no  
problem,  would there? All

I know is that there's another force  — at least there was when we were kids  — 
that wanted us
to  stay  alive  and  to  do  the job. Maybe it's still there.' He shrugged. It 
was a weary gesture. 'I
thought  two,  maybe  as  many  as  three  of  you  would  be  gone  by  the  
time  we  started  our  meet-
ing tonight. Missing or dead. Just seeing you turn up gave me reason to hope.'

Richie  looked  at  his  watch.  'Quarter  past  one.  How  the  time  flies  
when  you're  having  fun,
right, Haystack?'

'Beep-beep, Richie,' Ben said, and smiled wanly.

'You want to walk back to the Tuh-Tuh-Townhouse with me, Beverly?' Bill asked.

'All  right.'  She  was  putting  on  her  coat.  The  library  seemed  very  
silent  now,  shadowy,
frightening.  Bill  felt  the  last  two  days  catching  up  with  him  all  
at  once,  piling  up  on  his  back.
If               it  had  just  been  weariness,  that  would  have  been  
okay,  but  it  was  more:  a  feeling  that  he
was  cracking  up,  dreaming,  having  delusions  of  paranoia.  A  sensation  
of  being  watched.
Maybe I'm really not here at all,  he thought. Maybe I'm in Dr Seward's lunatic 
asylum, with


the  Count's  crumbling  townhouse  next  door  and  Renfield  just  across  
the  hall, him with his
flies and me with my monsters, both of us sure the party is really going on and 
dressed to the
nines for it, not in tuxedos but in strait-waistcoats.

'What about you, R-Richie?'

Richie  shook  his  head.  'I'm  going  to  let  Haystack  and  Kaspbrak  lead  
me  home,'  he  said.
'Right, fellers?'

'Sure,'  Ben  said.  He  looked  briefly  at  Beverly,  who  was  standing  
close  to  Bill,  and  felt  a
pain  he  had  almost  forgotten.  A  new  memory  trembled,  almost  within  
his  grasp,  then  floated
away.

'What about you, M-M-Mike?' Bill asked. 'Want to walk with Bev and m-me?'
Mike shook his head. 'I've got to — '

That  was  when  Beverly  screamed,  a  high-pitched  hurt  sound  in  the  
stillness.  The  vaulted
dome  overhead  picked  it  up,  and  the  echoes  were  like  the  laughter  
of  banshees,  flying  and
flapping around them.

Bill  turned  toward  her;  Richie  dropped  his  sportcoat  as  he  was  
taking  it  off  the  back  of  his
chair; there was a crash of glass as Eddie's arm swept an empty gin bottle onto 
the floor.

Beverly was  backing  away  from  them,  her  hands  held  out,  her  face  as  
white  as  good  bond
paper.   Her   eyes,   deep   in   dusky-purple  sockets,  bulged.  'My  
hands!'   She  screamed.  'My
hands!'

'What  —  '  Bill  began,  and  then  he  saw  the  blood  dripping  slowly  
between  her  shaking
fingers.  He  started  forward  and  felt  sudden  lines  of  painful  warmth  
cross  his  own  hands.  The
pain was not sharp; it was more like the pain one sometimes feels in an old 
healed wound.

The  old  scars  on  his  palms,  the  ones  which  had  reappeared  in  
England,  had  broken  open
and  were  bleeding.  He  looked  sideways  and  saw  Eddie  Kaspbrak  peering  
stupidly  down  at
his own hands. They were also bleeding. So were Mike's. And Richie's. And 
Ben's.

'We're  in  it  to  the  end,  aren't  we?'  Beverly  asked.  She  had  begun 
to cry. This sound was
also  magnified  in  the  library's  still  emptiness;  the  building  itself  
seemed  to  be  weeping  with
her. Bill thought that if he had to listen to that sound for long, he would go 
mad. 'God help us,
we're  in  it  to  the  end.'  She  sobbed,  and  a  runner  of  snot  depended 
 from  one  of  her  nostrils.
She wiped it off with the back of one shaking hand, and more blood dripped on 
the floor.

'Quh-Quh-hick!' Bill said, and seized Eddie's hand.
'What — '

'Quick?

He held out his other hand, and after a moment Beverly took it. She was still 
crying.

'Yes,'  Mike  said.  He  looked  dazed  —  almost drugged. 'Yes, that's right, 
isn't it? It's starting
again, isn't it, Bill? It's all starting to happen again.'

'Y-Y-Yes, I th-think — '

Mike  took  Eddie's  hand  and  Richie  took  Beverly's  other  hand.  For  a  
moment  Ben  only
looked at them, and then, like a man in a dream, he raised his bloody hands to 
either side and
stepped between Mike and Richie. He grasped their hands. The circle closed.

(Ah Chüd this is the Ritual of Chüd and the Turtle cannot help us)

Bill tried to scream but no sound came out. He saw Eddie's head tilt back, the 
cords on his
neck  standing  out.  Bev's  hips  bucked  twice,  fiercely,  as  if  in  an  
orgasm  as  short  and  sharp  as
the  crack  of  a  .22  pistol.  Mike's  mouth  moved  strangely,  seeming  to  
laugh  and  grimace  at  the
same  time.  In  the  silence  of  the  library  doors  banged  open  and  
shut,  the  sound  rolling  like
bowling  balls.  In  the  Periodicals  Room,  magazines  flew  in  a  windless  
hurricane.  In  Carole
Banner's office, the library's IBM typewriter whirred into life and typed:

hethrusts
hisfistsagainst


thepostsandstillinsistshesees
theghostshethrustshisfistsagainstthe

The   type-ball   jammed.   The   typewriter   sizzled   and   utte red   a   
thick   electronic   belch   as
everything  inside  overloaded.  In  Stack  Two,  the  shelf  of  occult  books 
 suddenly  tipped  over,
spilling Edgar Cayce, Nostradamus, Charles Fort, and the Apocrypha everywhere.

Bill  felt  an  exalting  sense  of  power.  He  was  dimly  aware  that  he  
had  an  erection,  and  that
every  hair  on  his  head  was  standing  up  straight.  The  sense  of  force 
 in  the  completed  circle
was incredible.

All the doors in the library slammed shut in unison.

The grandfather clock behind the checkout desk chimed once.
Then it was gone, as if someone had flicked off a switch.

They dropped their hands, looking at each other, dazed. No one said anything. 
As the sense
of  power  ebbed,  Bill  felt  a  terrible  sense  of  doom  creep  over  him.  
He  looked  at  their white,
strained  faces,  and  then  down  at  his  hands.  Blood  was  smeared  there, 
 but  the  wounds  which
Stan  Uris  had  made  with  a  jagged  piece  of  Coke  bottle  in  August  
1958  had  closed  up  again,
leaving  only  crooked  white  lines  like  knotted  twine.  He  thought: That  
was  the  last  time  the
seven of us were together . . . the day Stan made those cuts in the Barrens. 
Stan's not here;
he's dead. And this is the last time the six of us are going to be together. I 
know it, I feel it.

Beverly  was  pressed  against  him,  trembling.  Bill  put  an  arm  around  
her.  They  all  looked  at
him,  their  eyes  huge  and  bright  in  the  dimness,  the  long  table  
where  they  had  sat,  littered  with
empty bottles, glasses, and overflowing ashtrays, a little island of light.

'That's  enough,'  Bill  said  huskily.  'Enough  entertainment  for  one  
evening.  We'll  save  the

ballroom dancing for another time.'

'I  remembered,'  Beverly  said.  She  looked  up  at  Bill,  her  eyes  huge,  
her  pale  cheeks  wet.  'I
remembered  everything.  My  father  finding  out  about  you  guys.  Running.  
Bowers  and  Criss
and Huggins. How I ran. The tunnel . . . the birds . . . It . . . I remember 
everything.'

'Yeah,' Richie said. 'I do, too.'

Eddie nodded. 'The pumping-station — '
Bill said, 'And now Eddie — '

'Go back now,' Mike said. 'Get some rest. It's late.'
'Walk with us, Mike,' Beverly said.

'No.  I  have  to  lock  up.  And  I  have  to  write  a  few  things  down  .  
.  .  the  minutes  of  the
meeting, if you like. I won't be long. Go ahead.'

They  moved  toward  the  door,  not  talking  much.  Bill  and  Beverly  were  
together,  Eddie,

Richie,  and  Ben  behind  them.  Bill  held  the  door  for  her  and  she  
murmured  thanks.  As  she
went  out  onto  the  wide  granite  steps,  Bill  thought  how  young  she  
looked,  how  vulnerable  .  .  .
He  was  dismally  aware  that  he  might  be  falling  in  love  with  her  
again.  He  tried  to  think  of
Audra  but  Audra  seemed  far  away.  She  would  be  sleeping  in  their  
house  in  Fleet  now  as  the
sun came up and the milkman began his rounds.

Derry's  sky  had  clouded  over  again,  and  a  low  groundfog  lay  across  
the  empty  street  in
thick  runners.  Further  up  the  street,  the  Derry  Community  House,  
narrow,  tall,  Victorian,
brooded in blackness. Bill thought And  whatever walked in Community House, 
walked alone.
He  had  to  stifle  a  wild  cackle.  Their  footfalls  seemed  very  loud.  
Beverly's  hand  touched  his
and Bill took it gratefully.

'It started before we were ready,' she said.
'Would we eh-eh-ever have been r-ready?'
'You would have been, Big Bill.'

The  touch  of  her  hand  was  suddenly  both  wonderful  and  necessary.  He  
wondered what it
would  be  like  to  touch  her  breasts  for  the  second  time  in  his  
life,  and  suspected  that  before
this long night was over he would know. Fuller now, mature . . . and his hand 
would find hair


when he cupped the swelling of her  mons veneris.  He thought:  I loved you, 
Beverly . . . I love
you. Ben loved you . . . he laves you. We loved you then . . . we love you now. 
We better,
because it's starting. No way out now.

He glanced behind and saw the library half a block away. Richie and Eddie were 
on the top
step;  Ben  was  standing  at  the  bottom,  looking  after  them.  His  hands  
were  stuffed  in  his
pockets,  his  shoulders  were  slumped,  and  seen  through  the  drifting  
lens  of  the  low  fog,  he
might  almost  have  been  eleven  again.  If  he  had  been  able  to  send  
Ben  a  thought,  Bill  would
have sent this one: It doesn't matter, Ben. The love is what matters, the 
caring . . . it's always
the desire, never the time. Maybe that's all we get to take with us when we go 
out of the blue
and into the black. Cold comfort, maybe, but better than no comfort at all.

'My  father  knew,'  Beverly  said  suddenly.  'I  came  home  one  day  from  
the  Barrens  and  he
just knew. Did I ever tell you what he used to say to me when he was mad?'

'What?'

'"I  worry  about  you,  Bevvie."  That's  what  he  used  to  say.  "I  worry  
a  lot."' She laughed and
shivered at the same time. 'I think he meant to hurt me, Bill. I mean . . . 
he'd hurt me before,
but that last time was different. He was . . . well, in many ways he was a 
strange man. I loved
him. I loved him very much, but — '

She  looked  at  him,  perhaps  wanting  him  to  say  it  for  her.  He  
wouldn't;  it  was  something
she was going to have to say for herself, sooner or later. Lies and 
self-deceptions had become
a ballast they could not afford.

'I  hated  him,  too,'  she  said,  and  her  hand  bore  down  convulsively  
upon  Bill's  for  a  long
second. 'I never told that to anyone in my life before. I thought God would 
strike me dead if I
ever said it out loud.'

'Say it again, then.'
'No, I-'

'Go on. It'll hurt, but maybe it's festered in there long enough. Say it.'

'I hated my dad,' she said, and began to sob helplessly. 'I hated him, I was 
scared of him, I
hated  him,  I  could  never  be  a  good  enough  girl  to  suit  him and I 
hated him, I did, but I loved
him, too.'

He  stopped  and  held  her  tight.  Her  arms  went  around  him  in  a  
panicky  grip.  Her  tears  wet
the  side  of  his  neck.  He  was  very  conscious  of  her  body,  ripe  and  
firm.  He  moved  his  torso
away  from  hers  slightly, not wanting her to feel the erection he was getting 
. . . but she moved
against him again.

'We'd   spent   the   morning   down   there,'   she   said,   'playing   tag   
or   something   like   that.
Something harmless.  We hadn't even talked about It that day, at least not then 
. . . we usually
talked about It every day, at some point, though. Remember?'

'Yes,' he said. 'At some p-p-point. I remember.'

'It was overcast . . . hot. We played most of the morning. I went home around 
eleven-thirty.
I thought I'd have a  sandwich and a bowl of soup after I took a shower. And 
then I'd go back
and play some more. My parents were both working. But he was there. He was 
home. He

2

Lower Main Street / 11:30 A.M.

threw  her  across  the  room  before  she  had  even  gotten  all  the  way  
through  the  door.  A
startled  scream  was  jerked  out  of  her  and  then  cut  off  as  she  hit  
the  wall  with  shoulder-
numbing  force.  She  collapsed  onto  their  sagging  sofa,  looking  around  
wildly.  The  door  to  the
front hall banged shut. Her father had been standing behind it.


'I  worry  about  you,  Bevvie,'  he  said.  'Sometimes  I  worry  a  lot.  You 
know that. I tell you
that, don't I? You bet I do.'

'Daddy what — '

He was walking slowly toward her across the living room, his face thoughtful, 
sad, deadly.
She  didn't  want  to  see  that  last,  but  it  was  there,  like  the  blind 
 shine  of  dirt  on  still  water.  He
was  nibbling  reflectively  on  a  knuckle  of  his  right  hand.  He  was  
dressed  in  his  khakis,  and
when  she  glanced  down  she  saw  that  his  high-topped  shoes  were  le 
aving  tracks  on  her
mother's carpet. I'll  have to get the vacuum out,  she thought incoherently. 
Vacuum that up. If
he leaves me able to vacuum. If he —

It  was  mud  .Black  mud.  Her  mind  sideslipped  alarmingly.  She  was  back 
 in  the  Barrens
with   Bill,   Richie,  Eddie,  and  the  others.  There  was  black,  viscous  
mud  like  the  kind  on
Daddy's  shoes  down  there  in  the  Barrens,  in  the  swampy  place  where  
the  stuff  Richie  called
bamboo  stood  in  a  skeletal  white  grove.  When  the  wind  blew  the  
stalks  rattled  together
hollowly,   producing   a   sound   like   voodoo   drums,   and   had   her   
father   been   down   in   the
Barrens? Had her father —

WHAP!

His  hand  rocketed  down  in  a  wide  sweeping  orbit  and  struck  her  
face.  Her  head  thudded
back  against  the  wall.  He  hooked  his  thumbs  in  his  belt and looked at 
her with that expression
of  deadly  disconnected  curiosity.  She  felt  a  trickle  of  blood  running 
 warmly  from  the  left
corner of her lower lip.

'I  have  seen  you  getting  big,'  he  said,  and  she  thought  he  would  
say  something  more,  but
for the time being that seemed to be all.

'Daddy, what are you talking about?' she asked in a low trembling voice.

'If  you  lie  to  me,  I'll  beat  you  within  an  inch  of  your  life,  
Bevvie,'  he  said,  and  she  realized
with  horror  that  he  wasn't  looking  at  her;  he  was  looking  at  the  
Currier  and  Ives  picture  over
her  head,  on  the  wall  above  the  sofa.  Her  mind  sideslipped  crazily  
again  and  she  was  four,
sitting  in  the  bathtub  with  her  blue  plastic  boat  and  her  Popeye  
soap;  her  father,  so  big  and  so
well-loved,  was  kneeling  beside  her,  dressed  in  gray  twill  pants  and  
a  strappy  tee-shirt,  a
washcloth  in  one  hand  and  a  glass  of  orange  soda  in  the  other,  
soaping  her  back  and  saying,
Lemme see those ears, Bevvie; your ma needs taters for supper. And she could 
hear her small
self  giggling,  looking  up  at  his  slightly  grizzled  face,  which  she  
had  then  believed  must  be
eternal.

'I  .   .   .   I  won't  lie,  Daddy,'  she  said.  'What's  wrong?'  Her  
view  of  him  was  gradually
shivering apart as the tears came.

'You been down there in the Bar'ns with a gang of boys?'

Her  heart  leaped;  her  eyes  dropped  to  his  mud-caked  shoes  again.  
That  black,  clingy  mud.
If you stepped into it too deep it would suck your sneaker or your loafer right 
off . . . and both
Richie and Bill believed that, if you went in all the way, it turned to 
quickmud.

'I play down there somet — '

Whap!  the  hand,  covered  with  hard  calluses,  rocketing  down  again.  She 
 cried  out  hurt,
afraid.  That  look  on  his  face  scared  her,  and  the  way  he  wouldn't  
look  at  her scared her, too.
There  was  something  wrong  with  him.  He  had  been  getting  worse  .  .  
.  What  if  he  meant  to
kill her? What if

(oh stop it Beverly he's your FATHER and FATHERS don't kill DAUGHTERS)

he lost control, then? What if —
'What have you let them do to you?'

'Do? What — ' She had no idea what he meant.
'Take your pants off.'

Her  confusion  increased.  Nothing  he  said  seemed  connected  to  anything  
else.  Trying  to

follow him made her feel . . . seasick, almost.


'What . . . why . . . ?'

His hand rose; she flinched back. 'Take them off, Bevvie. I want to see if you 
are intact.'

Now there was a new image, crazier than the rest: she saw herself pulling her 
jeans off, and
one  of  her  legs  coming  off  with  them.  Her  father  belting  her  around 
 the  room  as  she  tried  to
hop away from him on her one good leg, Daddy shouting:  I knew you wasn't 
intact! I knew it!
I knew it!

'Daddy, I don't know what — '

His  hand  came  down,  not  slapping  this  time  but  clutching.  It  bit  
into  her  shoulder  with
furious  strength.  She  screamed.  He  pulled  her  up,  and  for  the  first  
time  looked  directly  into
her eyes. She screamed again at what she saw there. It was . . .  nothing. Her 
father was gone.
And  Beverly  suddenly  understood  that  she  was  alone  in  the  apartment  
with  It,  alone  with  It
on  this  dozey  August  morning.  There  was  not  the  thick  sense  of  
power  and  untinctured  evil
she  had  felt  in  the  house  on  Neibolt  Street  a  week  and  a  half  ago 
 —  It  had  been  diluted
somehow by her father's essential humanity — but It was here, working through 
him.

He  threw  her  aside.  She  struck  the  coffee  table,  tripped  over  it,  
and  went  sprawling  on  the
floor  with  a  cry.  This  is  how  it  happens,   she thought.  I'll  tell  
Bill  so  he  understands.  It's
everywhere in Derry. It just . . . It just fills the hollow places, that's all.

She  rolled  over.  Her  father  was  walking  toward  her.  She  skidded  away 
 from  him  on  the
seat of her jeans, her hair in her eyes.

'I  know  you  been  down  there,'  he  said.  'I  was  told.  I  didn't  
believe  it.  I  didn't  believe  my
Bevvie  would  be  hanging  around  with  a  gang  of  boys.  Then  I  seen  
you  myself  this  morning.
My  Bevvie  with  a  bunch  of  boys.  Not  even  twelve  and  hanging around 
with a bunch of boys!'
This  latter  thought  seemed  to  send  him  into  a  fresh  rage;  it  
trembled  through  his  scrawny
frame like volts.  'Not  even  twelve  years  old!'   he shouted, and fetched a 
kick at her thigh that
made  her  scream.  His  jaws  snapped  over  this  fact  or  concept  or  
whatever  it  was  to  him  like
the  jaws  of  a  hungry  dog  worrying a piece of meat.  'Not  even  twelve!  
Not  even  twelve!  Not
even TWELVE!'

He  kicked.  Beverly  scrambled  away.  They  had  worked  their  way  into  
the  kitchen  area  of
the  apartment  now.  His  workboot  struck  the  drawer  under  the  stove,  
making  the  pots  and
pans inside jangle.

'Don't you run from me, Bevvie,' he said. 'You don't want to do that or it'll 
be the worse for
you.  Believe  me,  now.  Believe  your  dad.  This  is  serious.  Hanging  
around  with  the  boys,
letting  them  do  God  knows  what  to  you  —  not  even  twelve  —  that's  
serious,  Christ  knows.'
He grabbed her and jerked her to her feet by her shoulder.

'You're a pretty girl,' he said. 'There's plenty of people happy to roon a 
pretty girl. Plenty of
pretty girls willing to be roont. You been a slutchild to them boys, Bevvie?'

At last she understood what It had put in his head . . . except part of her 
knew the thought
might  almost  have  been  there  all  along;  that  It  might  only  have  
used  the  tools  that  had  been
there just lying around, waiting to be picked up.

'No Daddy. No Daddy — '

'I  seen  you  smoking!'  he bellowed. This time he struck her with the palm of 
his hand, hard
enough  to  send  her  reeling  back  in  drunken  strides  to  the  kitchen  
table  where  she  sprawled,  a
flare  of  agony  in  the  small  of  her  back.  The  salt  and  pepper  
shakers  fell  to  the  floor.  The
pepper   shaker   broke.   Black   flowers   bloomed   and   disappeared   
before   her   eyes.   Sounds
seemed  too  deep.  She  saw  his  face.  Something  in  his  face.  He  was  
looking  at  her  chest.  She
was suddenly aware that  her blouse had come untucked, that some of the buttons 
had popped
off,  and  that  she  wasn't  wearing  a  bra  .  .  .  as  of  yet,  she  
owned  only  one,  a  training  bra.  Her
mind  sideslipped  back  to  the  house  at  Neibolt  Street,  when  Bill  had  
given  her  his  shirt.  She
had  been  aware  of  the  way  her  breasts  poked  at  the  thin  cotton  
material,  but  their  occasional,


skittering  glances  had  not  bothered  her;  these  had  seemed  perfectly  
natural.  And   Bill's  look
had seemed more than natural — it had seemed warm and wanted, if deeply 
dangerous.

Now she felt guilt mix with her terror. Was her father so wrong? Hadn't she had

(you been a slutchild to them)

thoughts? Bad thoughts? Thoughts of whatever it was that he was talking about?

It's not the same thing! It's not the same thing as the way
(you been a slutchild)

he's looking at me now! Not the same!

She tucked her blouse back in.
'Bevvie?'

'Daddy, we just  play,  that's all. We play . . . We . . . we don't do anything 
like . . . anything

bad. We — '

'I  seen  you  smoking,'  he  said  again,  walking  toward  her.  His  eyes  
moved  across  her  chest
and   her   narrow   uncurved   hips.   He   chanted   suddenly,   in   a   
high   schoolboy's   voice   that
frightened her even more:  'A  girl  who  will  chew  gum  will  smoke!  A  
girl  who  will smoke will
drink! And a girl who will drink, everyone knows what a girl like that will 
do!'

'I DIDN'T DO ANYTHING!'  she screamed at him as his hands descended on her 
shoulders.
He  was  not  pinching  or  hurting  now.  His  hands  were  gentle.  And  that 
 was  somehow scariest
of all.

'Beverly,'  he  said  with  the  inarguable,  mad  logic  of  the  totally  
obsessed,  'I  seen  you  with
boys. Now you want to tell me what a girl does with boys down in all that 
trashwood if it ain't
what a girl does on her back?'

'Let  me  alone!'  she  cried  at  him.  The  anger  flashed  up  from  a  deep 
 well  she  had  never
suspected.  The  anger  made  a  bluish-yellow  flame  in  her  head.  It  
threatened  her  thoughts.  All
the  times  he  had  scared  her;  all  the  times  he  had  shamed  her;  all  
the  times  he  had hurt her.
'You just let me alone!'

'Don't talk to your daddy like that,' he said, sounding startled.

'I didn't do what you're saying! I never did!'

'Maybe. Maybe not. I'm going to check and make sure. I know how. Take your 
pants off.'

'No.'

His  eyes  widened,  showing  yellowed  cornea  all  the  way  around  the  
deep  blue  irises.  'What

did you say?'

'I said  no.'  His  eyes  were  fixed  on  hers  and  perhaps  he  saw  the  
blazing  anger  there,  the
bright upsurge of rebellion. 'Who told you?'

'Bevvie — '

'Who told you we play down there? Was it a stranger? Was it a man dressed in 
orange and
silver?  Did  he  wear  gloves?  Did  he  look  like  a  clown  even  if  he  
wasn't  a  clown?  What  was
his name?'

'Bevvie, you want to stop — '

'No: you want to sto p,' she told him.

He  swung  his  hand  again,  not  open  but  this  time  closed  in  a  fist  
meant  to  break  something.
Beverly  ducked.  His  fist  whistled  over  her  head  and  crashed  into  the 
 wall.  He  howled  and  let
go    of her, putting the fist to his mouth. She backed away from him in quick 
mincing steps.

'You come back here!'

'No,'  she  said.  'You  want  to  hurt  me.  I  love  you,  Daddy,  but  I  
hate  you  when  you're  like
this. You can't do it anymore. It's making you do it, but you let It in.'

'I  don't  know  what you're  talking  about,'  he  said,  'but  you  better  
get  over  here  to  me.  I  am
not going to ask you no more.'

'No,' she said, beginning to cry again.


'Don't  make  me  come  over  there  and  collect  you,  Bevvie.  You're  going 
 to  be  one  sorry
little girl if I have to do that. Come to me.'

'Tell me who told you,' she said, 'and I will.'

He  leaped  at  her  with  such  scrawny,  catlike  agility  that,  although  
she  suspected  such  a  leap
was  coming,  she  was  almost  caught.  She  fumbled  for  the  kitchen  
doorknob,  pulled the door
open  just  wide  enough  so  she  could  slip  though,  and  then  she  was  
running  down  the  hall
toward  the  front  door,  running  in  a  dream  of  panic,  as  she  would  
run  from  Mrs  Kersh  twenty-
seven  years  later.  Behind  her,  Al  Marsh  crashed  against  the  door,  
slamming  it  shut  again,
cracking it down the center.

'YOU  GET  BACK  HERE  RIGHT  NOW  BEVVIE!'  he howled, yanking it open and 
coming
after her.

The  front  door  was  on  the  latch;  she  had  come  home  the  back  way.  
One  of  her  trembling
hands  worked  at  the  lock  while  the  other  yanked  fruitlessly  at  the  
knob.  Behind,  her  father
howled again; the sound of an

(take those pants off slutchild)

animal.  She  turned  the  lock-knob and the front door finally swept open. Hot 
breath plunged
up  and  down  in  her  throat.  She  looked  over  her  shoulder  and  saw  
him  right  behind  her,
reaching for her, grinning and grimacing, his horsey yellow teeth a beartrap in 
his mouth.

Beverly  bolted  out  through  the  screen  door  and  felt  his  fingers  skid 
 down  the  back  of  her
blouse  without  catching  hold.  She  flew  down  the  steps,  overbalanced,  
and  went  sprawling  on
the concrete walkway, erasing the skin from both knees.

'YOU GET BACK HERE NOW BEVVIE OR BEFORE GOD I'LL WHIP THE SKIN OFF

YOU!'

He came down the steps and she scrambled to her feet, holes in the legs of her 
jeans,

(your pants off)

her   kneecaps   sizzling   blood,   exposed   nerve-endings  singing  'Onward  
Christian  Soldiers.'
She  looked  back  and  here  he  came  again,  Al  Marsh,  janitor  and  
custodian,  a  gray  man

dressed  ni  khaki  pants  and  a  khaki  shirt  with  two  flap  pockets,  a  
keyring  attached  to  his  belt

by  a  chain,  his  hair  flying.  But  he  wasn't  in  his  eyes  —  the  
essential  he  who  had  washed  her
back  and  punched  her  in  the  gut  and  had  done  both  because  he  
worried  about  her, worried a
lot,  the he who had once tried to braid her hair when she was seven, made a 
botch of it, and
then  got  giggling  with  her  about  the  way  it  stuck  out  everyway,  the 
 he  who  knew  how  to
make  cinnamon  eggnogs  on  Sunday  that  tasted  better  than  anything  you  
could  buy  for  a
quarter  at  the  Derry  Ice  Cream  Bar,  the  father-he,  maleman  of  her  
life,  delivering  a  mixed
post  from  that  other  sexual  state.  None  of  that  was  in  his  eyes  
now.  She  saw  blank  murder
there. She saw It there.

She ran. She ran from It.

Mr  Pasquale  looked  up,  startled,  from  where  he  was  watering  his  
crab-grassy  lawn  and
listening  to  the  Red  Sox  game  on  a  portable  radio  sitting  on  his  
porch  rail.  The  Zinnerman
kids  stood  back  from  the  old  Hudson  Hornet  which  they  had  bought  
for  twenty-five dollars
and  washed  almost  every  day.  One  of  them  was  holding  a  hose,  the  
other  a  bucket  of
soapsuds.  Both  were  slack-jawed.  Mrs  Denton  looked  out  of  her  second 
-floor apartment, one
of  her  six  daughters'  dresses  in  her  lap,  more  mending  in  a  basket  
on the floor, her mouth full
of  pins.  Little  Lars  Theramenius  pulled  his  Red  Ball  Flyer  wagon  
quickly  off  the  cracked
sidewalk  and  stood  on  Bucky  Pasquale's  dying  lawn.  He  burst  into  
tears  as  Bevvie,  who  had
spent  a  patient  morning  that  spring  showing  him  how  to  tie  his  
sneakers  so  they  would  stay
tied,  flashed  by  him,  screaming,  her  eyes  wide.  A  moment  later  her  
father  passed,  hollering  at
her,  and  Lars,  who  was  then  three  and  who  would  die  twelve  years  
later  in  a  motorcycle
accident,  saw  something  terrible   and  inhuman  in  Mr  Marsh's  face.  He  
had  nightmares  for
three weeks after. In them he saw Mr Marsh turning into a spider inside his 
clothes.


Beverly  ran.  She  was  perfectly  aware  that  she  might  be  running  for  
her  life.  If  her  father
caught  her  now,  it  wouldn't  matter  that  they  were  on  the  street.  
People  did  crazy  things  in
Derry  sometimes;  she  didn't  have  to  read  the  newspapers  or  know  the  
town's  peculiar  history
to understand that. If he caught her he would choke her, or beat her, or kick 
her. And when ti
was  over,  someone  would  come  and  collect  him  and  he  would  sit  in  a 
 cell  the  way  Eddie
Cochran's stepfather was sitting in a cell, dazed and uncomprehending.

She ran toward downtown, passing more and more people as she went. They stared  
— first
at  her,  then  at  her  pursuing  father  —  and  they  looked  surprised,  
some  of  them  even  amazed.
But  what  was  on  their  faces  went  no  further.  They  looked  and  then  
they  went  on  toward
wherever they had been going. The air circulating in her lungs was growing 
heavier now.

She   crossed   the   Canal,   feet   pounding   on   cement   while   cars   
rumbled   over   the   heavy
wooden  slats  of  the  bridge  to  her  right.  To  her  left  she  could  see 
 the  stone  semicircle  where
the  Canal  went  under  the  downtown  area.  She  cut  suddenly  across  Main 
 Street, oblivious of
the  honking  horns  and  squealing  brakes.  She  went  right  because  the  
Barrens  lay  in  that
direction.  It  was  still  almost  a  mile  away,  and  if  she  was  to  get  
there  she  would  somehow
have   to  outdistance  her  father  on  the  gruelling  slope  of  Up-Mile  
Hill  (or  one  of  the  even
steeper side-streets). But that was all there was.

'COME BACK YOU LITTLE BITCH I'M WARNING YOU!'

As  she  gained  the  sidewalk  on  the  far  side  of  the  street  she  
snatched  another  glance  behind
her,  the  heavy  weight  of  her  red  hair  shifting  over  her  shoulder  as 
 she  did.  Her  father  was
crossing the street, as heedless of the traffic as she had been, his face a 
bright sweaty red.

She  ducked  down  an  alley  that  ran  behind  Warehouse  Row.  This  was  
the  rear  of  the

buildings  which  fronted  on  Up-Mile  Hill:  Star  Beef,  Armour  
Meatpacking,  Hemphill  Storage
&  Warehousing,  Eagle  Beef  &  Kosher  Meats.  The  alley  was  narrow  and  
cobbled,  made
narrower  still  by  the  bunches  of  fuming  garbage  cans  and  bins  set  
out  here.  The  cobbles  were
slimy  with  God  knew  what  offal  and  ordure.  There  was  a  mixture  of  
smells,  some  bland,
some  sharp,  some  simply  titanic  .  .  .  but  all  spoke  of  meat  and  
slaughter.  Flies  buzzed  in
clouds.  From  inside  some  of  the  buildings  she  could  hear  the  
blood-curdling  whine  of  bone-
saws.  Her  feet  stuttered  unevenly  on  the  slick  cobbles.  One  hip  
struck  a  galvanized  garbage
can and packages of tripe wrapped in newspaper fell out like great meaty jungle 
blossoms.

'YOU GET RIGHT THE HELL BACK HERE BEVVIE! I MEAN IT NOW! DON'T MAKE
IT ANY WORSE THAN IT ALREADY IS, GIRL!'

Two  men  lounged  in  the  loading  doorway  of  the  Kirshner  Packing  
Works,  munching  thick
sandwiches,  open  dinnerbuckets  near  at  hand.  'You  in  a  woeful  place,  
girl,'  one  of  them  said
mildly. 'Looks like you're goin to the woodshed with your pa.' The other 
laughed.

He   was   gaining.   She   could   hear   his   thundering   footfalls   and   
heavy   respiration   almost
behind  her  now;  looking  to  her  right  she  could  see  the  black  wing  
of  his  shadow  flying  along
the high board fence there.

Then  he  yelled  in  surprise  and  fury  as  his  feet  slipped  out  from  
under  him  and  he  thumped
to  the  cobblestones.  He  was  up  a  moment  later,  no  longer  bellowing  
words  but  only  shrieking
out  his  incoherent  fury  while  the  men  in  the  doorway  laughed  and  
slapped  each  other  on  the
back.

The  alley  zigged  to  the  left  .  .  .  and  Beverly  came  to  a  
skittering  halt,  her  mouth  opening  in
dismay.  A  city  dumpster  was  parked  across  the  alley's  mouth.  There  
was  not  even  nine  inches
of  clearance  on  either  side.  Its  motor  was  idling.  Under  that  sound, 
 barely  audible,  she  could
hear  the  murmur  of  conversation  from  the  dumpster's  cab.  More  men  on 
 lunch-break.  It
lacked  no  more  than  three  or  four  minutes  of  noon;  soon  the  
courthouse  clock  would  begin  to
chime the hour.

She  could  hear  him  coming  again,  closing  in.  She  threw  herself  down  
and  hooked  her  way

under  the  dumpster,  using  her  elbows  and  wounded  knees.  The  stink  of 
 exhaust  and  diesel


fuel  mixed  with  the  smell  of  ripe  meat  and  made  her  feel  a  kind  
of  giddy  nausea.  In a way,
the  ease  of  her  progress  was  worse;  she  was  skidding  greasily  over  
a  coating  of  slime  and
garbagey crud. She kept moving, once rising too high off the cobbles so that 
her back came in
contact with the dumpster's hot exhaust-pipe. She had to bite back a scream.

'Beverly?  You  under  there?'  Each  word  separated  from  the  last  by  an  
out-of-breath gasp for
air. She looked back and met his eyes as he bent and peered under the truck.

'Leave . . . me alone!' she managed.

'You  bitch,'  he  replied  in  a  thick,  spit-choked  voice.  He  threw  
himself  flat,  keys  jingling,
and began to crawl after her, using a grotesque swimming stroke to pull himself 
along.

Beverly  clawed  her  way  from  under  the  truck's  cab,  grabbed  one  of  
the  huge  tires   — her
fingers  hooked their way into a tread up to the second knuckle  — and yanked 
herself up. She
banged  her  tail-bone  on  the  dumpster's  front  bumper  and  then  she  was 
 running  again,  heading
up  Up-Mile  Hill  now,  her  blouse  and  jeans  smeared  with  goop  and  
stinking  to  high  heaven.
She  looked  back  and  saw  her  father's  hands  and  freckled  arms  shoot  
out  from  under  the
dumpster's cab like the claws of some imagined childhood monster from under the 
bed.

Quickly,  hardly  thinking  at  all,  she  darted  between  Feldman's  Storage  
and  the  Tracker
Brothers'  Annex.  This  covert,  too  narrow  to  even  be  called  an  alley, 
 was  filled  with  broken
crates, weeds, sunflowers, and, of course, more garbage. Beverly dived behind a 
pile of crates
and crouched there. A few moments later she saw her father pound by the mouth 
of the covert
and on up the hill.

Beverly  got  up  and  hurried  to  the  far  end  of  the  covert.  There  was 
 a  chainlink  fence  here.
She monkeyed her way to the top, got over, and worked her way down the far 
side. She was
now  on  Derry  Theological  Seminary  property.  She  ran  up  the  manicured  
back  lawn  and
around  the  side  of  the  building.  She  could  hear  someone  inside  
playing  something  classical
on   an organ. The notes seemed to engrave their pleasant, calm selves on the 
still air.

There  was  a  tall  hedge  between  the  Seminary  and  Kansas  Street.  She  
peered  through  it  and
saw  her  father  on  the  far  side  of  the  street,  breathing  hard,  
patches  of  sweat  darkening  his
gray  work-shirt  under  the  arms.  He  was  peering  around,  hands  on  
hips.  His  keyring twinkled
brightly in the sun.

Beverly  watched  him,  also  breathing  hard,  her  heart  beating  
rabbit-fast  in  her  throat.  She
was very thirsty, and her simmering smell disgusted her.  If  I was  drawn  in  
a  comicstrip,  she
thought distractedly, there'd be all those wavy stink-lines coming up from me.

Her father crossed slowly to the Seminary side.
Beverly's breath stopped.

Please God, I can't run anymore. Help me, God. Don't let him find me.

Al  Marsh  walked  slowly  down  the  sidewalk,  directly  past where his 
daughter crouched on
the far side of the hedge.

Dear God, don't let him smell me!

He  didn't  —   perhaps  because,  after  a  tumble  in  the  alleyway  and  
crawling  under  the
dumpster  himself,  Al  smelled  as  bad  as  she  did.  He  walked  on.  She  
watched  him  go  back
down Up-Mile Hill until he was out of sight.

Beverly  picked  herself  up  slowly.  Her  clothes  were  covered  with  
garbage,  her  face  was

dirty,  her  back  hurt  where  she  had  burnt  it  on  the  exhaust-pipe  of  
the  dumpster.  These
physical  things  paled  before  the  confused  swirl  of  her  thoughts   —  
she  felt  that  she  had  sailed
off    the  edge  of  the  world,  and  none  of  the  normal  patterns  of  
behavior  seemed  to  apply.  She
could  not  imagine  going  home;  but  she  could  not  imagine  not  going  
home.  She  had  defied  her
father, defied him —

She  had  to  push  that  thought  away  because  it  made  her  feel  weak  
and  trembly,  sick  to  her
stomach.  She  loved  her  father.  Wasn't  one  of  the  Ten  Commandments  
'Honor  thy  mother  and


father  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the  earth'?  Yes.  But  he  
hadn't  been  himself.  Hadn't
been her father. Had, in fact, been someone completely different. An imposter. 
It —

Suddenly  she  went  cold  as  a  terrible  question  occurred  to  her.  Was  
this  happening  to  the
others?  Or  something  like  it?  She  ought  to  warn  them.  They  had  hurt 
 It,  and  perhaps  now  It
was  taking  steps  to  assure  Itself  they  would  never  hurt  It  again.  
And,  really,  where  else  was
there  to  go?  They  were  the  only friends she had. Bill. Bill would know 
what to do. Bill would
tell her what to do, Bill would supply the what next.

She  stopped  where  the  Seminary  walk  joined  the  Kansas  Street  sidewalk 
 and  peered
around  the  hedge.  Her  father  was  truly  gone.  She  turned  right  and  
began  to  walk  along
Kansas  Street  toward  the  Barrens.  Probably  none  of  them  would  be  
there  right  now;  they
would  be  at  home,  eating  their  lunches.  But  they  would  be  back.  
Meantime,  she  could  go
down  into  the  cool  clubhouse  and  try  to  get  herself  under  some  kind 
 of  control.  She  would
leave  the  little  window  wide  open  so  she  could  have  some  sunshine,  
and  perhaps  she  would
even  be  able  to  sleep.  Her  tired  body  and  overstrained  mind  grasped  
eagerly  at  the  thought.
Sleep, yes, that would be good.

Her  head  drooped  as  she  plodded  past  the  last  bunch  of  houses  
before  the  land grew too
steep  for  houses  and  plunged  down  into  the  Barrens  —  the Barrens 
where, as incredible as it
seemed to her, her father had been lurking and spying.

She  certainly  did  not  hear  footfalls  behind  her.  The  boys  there  were 
 at  great  pains  to  be
quiet.  They  had  been  outrun  before;  they  did  not  intend  to  be  
outrun  again.  They  drew  closer
and  closer  to  her,  walking  cat-soft. Belch and Victor were grinning, but 
Henry's face was both
vacant  and  serious.  His  hair  was  uncombed  and  snarly.  His  eyes  were  
as  unfocused  as  Al
Marsh's  had  been  in  the  apartment.  He  held  one  dirty  finger  pressed  
over  his  lips  in  a  shhh
gesture as they closed the distance from seventy feet to fifty to thirty.

Through   that   summer   Henry   had   been   edging   steadily   out   over   
some   mental   abyss,
walking  on  a  bridge  that  had  grown  relentlessly  more  and  more  
narrow.  On  the  day  when  he
had  allowed  Patrick  Hockstetter  to  caress  him,  that  bridge  had  
narrowed  to  a  tightrope.  The
tightrope  had  snapped  this  morning.  He  had  gone  out  into  the  yard,  
naked  except  for  his
ragged,  yellowing  undershorts,  and  looked  up  into  the  sky.  The  ghost  
of  last  night's  moon  still
lingered  there,  and  as  he  looked  at  it  the  moon  had  suddenly  
changed  into  a  skeletal  grinning
face.  Henry  had  fallen  on  his  knees  before  this  face,  exalted  with  
terror  and  joy.  Ghost-voices
came  from  the  moon.  The  voices  changed,  sometimes  seemed  to  merge  
together  in  a  soft
babble  that  was  barely  understandable  .  .  .  but  he  sensed  the  
truth,  which  was  simply  that  all
these  voices  were  one  voice, one intelligence. The voice told him to hunt 
up Belch and Victor
and  be  at  the  corner  of  Kansas  Street  and  Costello  Avenue  around  
noon.  The  voice  told  him
he would know what to do then. Sure enough, the cunt had come bopping along. He 
waited to
hear  what  the  voice  would  tell  him  to  do  next.  The  answer  came  as  
they  continued  to  close
the  distance.  The  voice  came  not  from  the  moon,  but  from  the  
sewer-grating  they  were
passing.  The  voice  was  low  but  clear.  Belch  and  Victor  glanced  
toward  the  grating  in  a  dazed,
almost hypnotized way, then back at Beverly.

Kill her, the voice from the sewer said.

Henry  Bowers  reached  into  the  pocket  of  his  jeans  and  brought  out  a 
 slim  nine-inch-long
instrument   with   imitation-ivory  inlays  along  its  sides.  A  small  
chromium  button  glittered  at
one   end of this dubious  objet d'art.  Henry pushed  it A six-inch blade 
popped out of the slit at
the  end  of  the  handle.  He  bounced  the  switchblade  on  his  palm.  He  
began  to  walk  a  little
faster.  Victor  and  Belch,  still  looking  dazed,   increased  their  own  
walking  speed  to  keep  up
with him.

Beverly  did  not  hear  them,  precisely;  that  was  not  what  made  her  
turn  her  head  as  Henry
Bowers  closed  the  distance.  Bent-kneed,  shuffling,  a  frozen  grin  on  
his  face,  Henry  was  as


silent  as  an  Indian.  No;  it  was  simply  a  feeling,  too  clear  and  
direct  and  powerful  to  be
denied, of

3

The Derry Public Library - 1:55 A.M.

being watched.

Mike  Hanlon  laid  his  pen  aside  and  looked  across  the  shadowy  
inverted  bowl  of  the
library's  main  room.  He  saw  islands  of  light  thrown  by  the  hanging  
globes;  he  saw  books
fading  into  dimness;  he  saw  the  iron  staircases  making  their  graceful 
 trellised  spirals  up  to  the
stacks. He saw nothing out of place.

All the same, he did not believe he was alone in here. Not anymore.

After  the  others  were  gone,  Mike  had  cleaned  up  with  a  care  that  
was  only  habit.  He  was
on  autopilot,  his  mind  a  million  miles  —  and  twenty-seven  years  —   
away.   He   dumped
ashtrays,  threw  away  the  empty  liquor  bottles  (putting  a  layer  of  
waste  over  them  so  that
Carole  wouldn't  be  shocked),  and  the  returnable  cans  in  a  box  behind 
 his  desk.  Then  he  got
the broom and swept up the remains of the gin bottle Eddie had broken.

When  the  table  was  clean,  he  had  gone  into  the  Periodicals  Room  and 
 picked  up  the
scattered  magazines.  As  he  did  these  simple  chores,  his  mind  sifted  
the  stories  they  had  told

—   concentrating   the   most,   perhaps,   on   what   they   had   left   
out.   They   believed   they

remembered  everything;  he  thought  that  Bill  and  Beverly  almost  did.  
But  there  was  more.  It
would  come  to  them  .  .  .  if  it  allowed  them  the  time.  In  1958,  
there  had  been  no  chance  for
preparation.  They  had  talked  endlessly  —  their  talk  interrupted  only  
by  the  rockfight  and  that
one  act  of  group  heroism  at  29  Neibolt  Street  —  and  might,  in  the  
end,  have  done  no  more
than  talk.  Then  August  14th  had  come,  and  Henry  and  his  friends  had 
 simply  chased  them
into the sewers.

Maybe  I  should  have  told  them,   he thought, putting the last of the 
magazines back in their
places.  But  something  spoke  strongly  against  the  idea   —  the voice of 
the Turtle, he supposed.
Perhaps  that  was  part  of  it,  and  perhaps  that  sense  of  circularity  
was  part  of  it,  too.  Maybe
that   last   act   was   going   to   repeat   itself,   in   some   updated   
fashion,   as   well.   He   had  put
flashlights  and  miner's  helmets  carefully  by  against  tomorrow;  he  had  
the  blueprints  of  the
Derry  sewer  and  drain  systems  neatly  rolled  up  and  held  with  rubber  
bands  in  that  same
closet.  But,  when  they  were  kids,  all  their  talk  and  all  their  
plans,  half-baked  or  otherwise,
had  come  to  nothing  in  the  end;  in  the  end  they  had  simply  been  
chased  into  the  drains,
hurled  into  the  confrontation  which  had  followed.  Was  that  going  to  
happen  again  ?  Faith  and
power,  he  had  come  to  believe,  were  interchangeable.  Was  the  final  
truth  even  simpler?  That
no  act  of  faith  was  possible  until  you  were  rudly  pushed  out  into  
the  screaming  middle  of
things  like  a  newborn  child  skydiving  chutelessly  out  of  his  mother's 
 womb?  Once  you  were
falling,  you  were  forced  to  believe   in  the  chute,  into  existence,  
weren't  you?  Pulling  the  ring
as you fell became your final statement on the subject, one way or the other.

Jesus Christ, it's Fulton Sheen in blackface, Mike thought, and laughed a 
little.

Mike  cleaned,  neatened,  thought  his  thoughts,  while  another  part  of  
his  brain  expected  that
he  would  finish  and  finally  find  himself  tired  enough  to  go  home  
and  sleep  for  a  few  hours.
But when he finally did finish, he found himself as wide awake as ever. So he 
had gone to the
single  closed  stack  behind  his  office,  unlocking  the  wire  gate  with  
a  key  from  his  ring  and
letting  himself  in.  This  stack,  supposedly  fireproof  when  the  
vault-type  door  was  closed  and
locked,  contained  the  library's  valuable  first  editions,  books  signed  
by  writ ers long since dead
(among  the  signed  editions  were  Moby  Dick   and  Whitman's  Leaves  of  
Grass),  historical
matter  relating  to  the  town,  and  the  personal  papers  of  the  few  
writers  who  had  lived  and


worked   in   Derry.   Mike   hoped,   if   all   of   this   ended   well,   
to   persuade  Bill  to  leave  his
manuscripts  to  the  Derry  Public  library.  Walking  down  the  third  aisle 
 of  the  stack  beneath  tin-
shaded   light-bulbs,   smelling   the   familiar   library   scents   of   
must   and   dust   and   cinnimony,
ageing paper, he thought:  When  I  die,  I  guess  I'll go with a library card 
in one hand and an
OVERDUE stamp in the other. Well, maybe that's better than dying with a gun in 
your hand,
nigger.

He  stopped  halfway  down  this  third  aisle.  His  dog-eared steno notebook, 
which contained
the  jotted  tales  of  Derry  and  his  own  troubled  wanderings,  was  
tucked  between  Fricke's  Old
Derry-Town and Michaud's  History of Derry.  He had pushed the notebook so far 
back it was
nearly invisible. No one would stumble across it unless they were looking for 
it.

Mike took  it  and  went  back  to  the  table  where  they  had  held  their  
meeting,  pausing  to  turn
off  the  lights  in  the  closed  stack  and  to  re-lock  the  wire  mesh.  
He  sat  down  and  flipped
through  the  pages  he  had  written,  thinking  what  a  strange,  crippled  
affidavit  he  had  created:
half-history,   half-scandal,  part  diary,  part  confessional.  He  had  not  
entered  since  April  6th.
Have        to  get  a  new  book  soon,  he  thought,  thumbing  the  few  
blank  pages  that  were  left.  He
thought  bemusedly  for  a  moment  of  Margaret  Mitchell's  first  draft of  
Gone  with  the  Wind,
written  in  longhand  in  stacks  and  stacks  and  stacks  of  school  
composition  books.  Then  he
uncapped  his  pen  and  wrote  May  31st  two  lines  below  the  end  of  his 
 last  entry.  He  paused,
looking  vaguely  across  the  empty  library,  and  then  began  to  write  
about  everything  that  had
happened during the last three days, beginning with his telephone call to 
Stanley Uris.

He   wrote   carefully   for   fifteen   minutes,   and   then   his   
concentration   began   to   come
unravelled.  He  paused  more  and  more  frequently.  The  image  of  Stan  
Uris's  severed  head  in
the  refrigerator  tried  to  intrude,  Stan's  bloody  head,  the  mouth  open 
 and  full  of  feathers,
falling  out  of  the  refrigerator  and  rolling  across  the  floor  toward  
him.  He  banished  it  with  an
effort   and   went   on   writing.   Five   minutes   later   he   jerked   
upright   and   whirled   around,
convinced  he  would  see  that  head  rolling  across  the  old  black  and  
red  tiles  of  the  main  floor,
eyes  as  glassy  and  avid  as  the  eyes  in  the  mounted  head  of  a  
deer.  There  was  nothing.  No
head, no sound except the muffled drum of his own heart.

Got to get ahold of yourself, Mikey. It's the jim-jams, that's all. Nothing 
else to it.

But  it  was  no  use.  The  words  began  to  get  away  from  him,  the  
thoughts  seemed  to  dangle
just  out  of  reach.  There   was  a  pressure  on  the  back  of  his  neck,  
and  it  seemed  to  grow
heavier.

Being watched.

He  put  his  pen  down  and  got  up  from  the  table.  'Is  anyone  here?'  
he  called,  and  his  voice
echoed  back  from  the  rotunda,  giving  him  a  jolt.  He  licked  his  lips 
 and  tried again. 'Bill? . . .
Ben?'

Bill-ill-ill . . . Ben-en-en . . .

Suddenly  Mike  decided  he  wanted  to  be  home.  He  would  simply  take  
the  notebook  with
him. He reached for it . . . and heard a faint sliding footstep.

He  looked  up  again.  Pools  of light  surrounded  by  deepening  lagoons  of 
 shadow.  Nothing
else . . . at least nothing he could see. He waited, heart beating hard.

The   footstep   came   again,   and   this   time   he   pinpointed   the   
location.   The   glassed-in

passageway  that  connected  the  adult  library  to  the  Children's  Library. 
 In  there.  Someone.
Something.

Moving  quietly,  Mike  walked  across  to  the  checkout  desk.  The  double  
doors  leading  into
the passageway were held open by wooden chocks, and he could see a little way 
in. He could
see  what  looked  like  feet,  and  with  sudden  swooning  horror  he  
wondered  if  maybe  Stan  had
come  after  all,  if  maybe  Stan was going to  step out of the  shadows with 
his bird encyclopedia
in  one  hand,  his  face  white,  his  lips  purple,  his  wrists  and  
forearms  cut  open.  I  finally came,


Stan would say.  It took me awhile because I had to pull myself out of a hole 
in the ground,
but I finally came . . .

There  was  another  footstep  and  now  Mike  could  see  shoes  for  sure   — 
 shoes  and  ragged
pantslegs  —  denim,  with  strings  hanging  down  against  sockless  ankles.  
And,  in  the  darkness
almost six feet above those ankles, he could see glittering eyes.

He  groped  over  the  surface  of  the  semicircular  checkout  desk  and  
felt  along  the  other  side
without   taking   his   gaze   from   those   moveless,  glittering  eyes.  
His  fingers  felt  one  wooden
corner  of  a  small  box —  the  overdue  cards.  A  paper  box  —  paper  
clips  and  rubber  bands.
They  happened  on  something  that  was  metal  and  seized  it.  It  was  a  
letter-opener  with  the
words  JESUS  SAVES  stamped on the  handle.  A  flimsy  thing  that  had  come 
 in  the  mail  from  the
Grace  Baptist  Church  as  part  of  a  fund-raising drive. Mike had not 
attended services in fifteen
years,  but  Grace  Baptist  had  been  his  mother's  church  and  he  had  
sent  them  five  dollars he
could  not  really  afford.  He  had  meant  to  throw  the  letter-opener  out 
 but  it  had  stayed  here,
amid the clutter on his side of the desk (Carole's side was always spotlessly 
clean) until now.

He clutched it with feverish strength and stared into the shadowy hallway.

There  was  another  step  .  .  .  another.  Now  the  ragged  denim  pants  
were  visible  up  to  the
knees.   He   could   see   the   shape   these   lower   legs   belonged   to: 
  it   was   big,   hulking.   The
shoulders were rounded. There was a suggestion of ragged hair. The figure was 
ape-like.

'Who are you?'

There was no answer. The shape merely stood there, contemplating him.

Although  still  afraid,  Mike  had  gotten  over  the  debilitating  idea  
that  it  might  be  Stan  Uris,
returned  from  the  grave,  called  back  by  the  scars  on  his  palms,  
some  eldritch  magnetism
which  had  brought  him  back  like  a  zombie  in  a  Hammer  horror  film.  
Whoever  this  was,  it
wasn't Stan Uris, who had finished at five-seven when he had his full growth.

The  shape  took  another  step,  and  now  the  light  from  the  globe  
closest  to  the  passageway
fell across the beltless loops of the jeans around the shape's waist.

Suddenly Mike knew. Even before the shape spoke, he knew.

'Why,  it's  the  nigger,'  the  shape  said.  'Been  throwing  rocks  at  
anyone,  nigger?  Want  to
know who poisoned your fucking dog?'

The  shape  stepped  forward.  The  light  fell  on  the  face  of  Henry  
Bowers.  It  had  grown  fat
and  sagging;  the  skin  had  an  unhealthy  tallowy  hue;  the  cheeks  had  
become  hanging  jowls
that  were  specked  with  stubble,  almost as much white in that stubble as 
black. Wavy lines  —
three  of  them  —  were  engraved  in  the  shelf  of  the  forehead  above  
the  bushy  brows.  Other
lines  formed  parentheses  at  the  corners  of  the  full-lipped  mouth.  The 
 eyes  were  small  and
mean  inside  discolored   pouches  of  flesh  —  bloodshot  and  thoughtless.  
It  was  the  face  of  a
man  being  pushed  into  a  premature  age,  a  man  who  was  thirty-nine  
going  on  seventy-three.
But  it  was  also  the  face  of  a  twelve-year-old  boy.  Henry's  clothes  
were  still  green  with
whatever bushes he had spent the day hiding in.

'Ain't you ganna say howdy, nigger?' Henry asked.

'Hellow,  Henry.'  It  occurred  to  him  dimly  that  he  had  not  listened  
to  the  radio  for  the  last
two  days,  and  he  had  not  even  read  the  paper,  which  was  a  ritual  
with him. Too much going
on. Too busy.

Too bad.

Henry  emerged  from  the  corridor  between  the  Children's  Library  and  
the  adult  library  and
stood  there,  peering  at  Mike  with  his  piggy  little  eyes.  His  lips  
parted  in  an  unspeakable  grin,
revealing rotted back-Maine teeth.

'Voices,' he said. 'You hear voices, nigger?'

'Which  voices  are  those,  Henry?'  He  put  both  hands  behind  his  back,  
like  a  schoolboy
called  upon  to  recite,  and  transferred  the  letter-opener  from  his  
left  hand  to  his  right.  The


grandfather  clock,  given  by  Horst  Mueller  in  1923,  ticked  solemn  
seconds  into  the  smooth
pond of library silence.

'From  the  moon,'  Henry  said.  He  put  a  hand  in  his  pocket.  'Came  
from  the  moon. Lots of
voices.'  He  paused,  frowned  slightly,  then  shook  his  head.  'Lots  but  
really  only  one.  It's
voice.'

'Did you see It, Henry?'

'Yep,'  Henry  said.  'Frankenstein.  Tore  off  Victor's  head.  You  should  
have  heard  it.  Made  a
sound like a great big zipper going down. Then It went after Belch. Belch 
fought It.'

'Did he?'

'Yep. That's how I got away.'
'You left him to die.'

'Don't  you  say  that!'   Henry's  cheeks  flushed  a  dull  red.  He  took  
two  steps  forward.  The
farther  he  walked  from  the  umbilicus  connecting  the  Children's  Library 
 to  the  adult  library,
the  younger  he  looked  to  Mike.  He  saw  the  same  old  meanness  in  
Henry's  face,  but  he  saw
something  else  as  well:  the  child  who  had  been  brought  up  by  crazy  
Butch  Bowers  on  a  good
farm  that  had  gone  to  shitshack  shambles  over  the  years.  'Don't  you  
say  that! It would have
killed me, too.'

'It didn't kill us.'

Henry's  eyes  gleamed  with  rancid  humor.  'Not  yet.  But  It  will.  'Less 
 I  don't  leave  any  of
you  for  It  to  get,'  He  pulled  his  hand  out  of  his  pocket.  In  it  
was  a  slim  nine-inch-long
instrument   with  imitation-ivory  inlay  along  its  sides.  A  small  
chromium  button  glittered  at
one end of this dubious  objet d'art.  Henry pushed it. A six-inch steel blade 
popped out of the
slit  at  the  end  of  the  handle.  He  bounced  the  switchblade  on  his  
palm  and  began  to  walk
toward the checkout desk a little faster.

'Look  what  I  found,'  he  said.  'I  knew  where  to  look.'  Obscenely,  
one  red-rimmed eyelid
drooped in a wink. 'The man in the moon told me.' Henry revealed his teeth 
again. 'Hid today.
Hitchhiked  a  ride  tonight.  Old  man.  Hit  him.  Killed  him,  I  think.  
Ditched  the  car  over  in
Newport.  Just  over  the  Derry  town  line,  I  heard  that  voice.  I  
looked  in  a  drain.  There  was
these clothes. And the knife. My old knife.'

'You're forgetting something, Henry.'
Henry, grinning, only shook his head.

'We got away and you got away. If It wants us, It wants you too.'
'No.'

'I  think  yes.  Maybe  you  yo-yos  did  Its  work,  but  It  didn't  exactly  
play  favorites,  did  It?  It

got  both  of  your  friends,  and  while  Belch  was  fighting It, you got 
away. But now you're back.
I think you're part of Its unfinished business, Henry. I really do.'

'No!'

'Maybe  Frankenstein's  what  you'll  see.  Or  the  Werewolf?  A  Vampire.  
The  Clown,  Or
Henry! Maybe you'll really see what It looks like,  Henry. We did. Want me to 
tell you? Want
me to — '

'You shut up!' Henry screamed, and launched himself at Mike.

Mike  stepped  aside  and  stuck  out  one  foot.  Henry  tripped  over  it  
and  went  skidding  over
the  footworn  tiles  like  a  shuffleboard  weight.  His  head  struck  a  leg 
 of  the  table  where  the
Losers  had  sat  earlier  that  night,  telling  their  tales.  For  a  moment 
 he  was  stunned;  the  knife
hung loose in his hand.

Mike  went  after  him,  went  after  the  knife.  In  that  moment  he  could  
have  finished  Henry; it
would  have  been  possible  to  have  planted  the  JESUS  SAVES  
letter-opener  which  had  come  in
the  mail  from  his  mother's  old  church  in  the  back  of  Henry's  neck  
and  then  called  the  police.
There  would  have  been  a  certain  amount  of  official  nonsense,  but  not 
too much of it  — not in
Derry, where such weird and violent events were not entirely exceptional.


What  stopped  him  was  a  realization,  almost  too  lightninglike  to  be  
conscious,  that  if  he
killed  Henry,  he  would  be  doing  Its  work  as  surely  as  Henry  would  
be  doing  Its  work  by
killing  Mike.  And  something  else;  that  other  look  he  had  seen  on  
Henry's  face,  the  tired,
bewildered  look  of  the  badly  used  child  who  has  been  set  on  a  
poisonous  path  for  some
unknown  purpose.  Henry  had  grown  up  within  the  contaminated  radius  of 
 Butch  Bowers's
mind; surely he had belonged to It even before he suspected it existed.

So  instead  of  planting  the  letter-opener  in  Henry's  vulnerable  neck,  
he  dropped  to  his  knees
and  snatched  at  the  knife.  It  twisted  in  his  hand  —  seemingly  of  
its  own  volition  —  and his
ringers  closed  on  the  blade.  There  was  no  immediate  pain;  only  red  
blood  flowing  down  the
first three fingers of his right hand and into his scarred palm.

He  pulled  back.  Henry  rolled  away  and  grabbed  the  knife  again.  Mike 
got to his knees and
the  two  of  them  faced  each  other  that  way,  each  bleeding:  Mike's  
fingers,  Henry's  nose.
Henry shook his head and droplets flew away into the darkness.

'Thought  you  were  so  smart!'  he  cried  hoarsely.  'Fucking  sissies  is  
all  you were! We could
have beat you in a fair fight!'

'Put  the  knife  down,  Henry,'  Mike  said  quietly.  'I'll  call  the  
police.  They'll  come  and  get
you and take you back to Juniper Hill. You'll be out of Derry. You'll be safe.'

Henry  tried  to  talk  and  couldn't.  He  couldn't  tell  this  hateful  jig  
that  he  wouldn't  be  safe  in
Juniper  Hill,  or  Los  Angeles,  or  the  rainforests  of  Timbuktu.  Sooner  
or  later  the  moon  would
rise,  bone-white  and  snow-cold,  and  the  ghost -voices  would  start,  and 
 the  face  of  the  moon
would  change  into  Its  face,  babbling  and  laughing  and  ordering.  He  
swallowed  slick-slimy
blood.

'You never fought fair!'
'Did you?' Mike asked.

'You   niggerboogienight-fighterjungle-bunnyapemancoon!'   Henry   screamed,   
and   leaped   at
Mike again.

Mike   leaned   back   to   avoid   his   blundering,   awkward   rush,   
overbalanced,   and   went
sprawling  on  his  back.  Henry  struck  the  table  again,  rebounded,  
turned,  and  clutched  Mike's
arm.  Mike  swept  the  letter-opener  around  and  felt  it  go  deep  into  
Henry's  forearm.  Henry
screamed,  but  instead  of  letting  go,  he  tightened  his  grip.  He  
pulled  himself  toward  Mike,  his
hair in his eyes, blood flowing from his ruptured nose over his thick lips.

Mike  tried  to  get  a  foot  in  Henry's  side  and  push  him  away.  Henry  
swung  the  switchblade
in  a  glittering  arc,  and  all  six  inches  of  it  went  into  Mike's  
thigh. It went in effortlessly, as if
into a warm cake of butter. Henry pulled it out, dripping, and with a scream of 
combined pain
and effort, Mike shoved him away.

He  struggled  to  his feet but Henry was up more quickly, and Mike was barely 
able to avoid
Henry's  next  blundering  rush.  He  could  feel  blood  pouring  down  his  
leg  in  an  alarming  flood,
filling his loafer. He got my femoral artery, I think. Jesus, he got me bad. 
Blood everywhere.
Blood on the floor. Shoes won't be any good, shit, just bought them two months 
ago —

Henry  came  again,  panting  and  puffing  like  a  bull  in  heat.  Mike  
staggered  aside  and  swept
the  letter-opener  at  him  again.  It  tore  through  Henry's  ragged  shirt  
and  pulled  a  deep  cut
across his ribs. Henry grunted as Mike shoved him away again.

'You dirty-fighting nigger!' He wailed. 'Look what you done!'

'Drop the knife, Henry,' Mike said.

There  was  a  titter  from  behind  them.  Henry  looked  .  .  .  and  then  
screamed  in  utter  horror,
clapping  his  hands  to  his  cheeks  like  an  offended  old  maid.  Mike's  
gaze  jerked  toward  the
circulation  desk.  There  was  a  loud,  vibrating  ka-spanggg! sound, and 
Stan Uris's head popped
up    from  behind  the  desk.  A  spring  corkscrewed  up  and  into  his  
severed,  dripping  neck.  His
face was livid with greasepaint. There was a fever spot of rouge on each cheek. 
Great orange
pompoms  flowered  where  the  eyes  had  been.  This  grotesque  
Stan-in-the-box  head  nodded


back  and  forth  at  the  end  of  its  spring  like  one  of  the  giant  
sunflowers  beside  the  house  on
Neibolt  Street.  Its  mouth  opened  and  a  squealing,  laughing  voice  
began  to  chant:  'Kill  him,
Henry! Kill the nigger, kill the coon, kill him, kill him, KILL HIM!'

Mike  wheeled  back  toward  Henr y,  dismally  aware  that  he  had  been  
tricked,  wondering
faintly  whose  face  Henry  had  seen  at  the  end  of  that  spring.  
Stan's?  Victor  Criss's?  His
father's, perhaps?

Henry  shrieked  and  rushed  at  Mike,  the  switchblade  plunging  up  and  
down  like  the  needle
of a  sewing  machine.   'Gaaaah,  nigger!'  Henry  was  screaming.   'Gaaaah,  
nigger!  Gaaaah,
nigger!'

Mike  back-pedaled,  and  the  leg  Henry  had  stabbed  buckled  under  him  
almost  at  once,

spilling  him  to  the  floor.  There  was  hardly  any  feeling  at  all  left 
 in  that  el g.  It  felt  cold  and

distant. Looking down, he saw that his cream-colored slacks were now bright 
red.

Henry's blade flashed by in front of his nose.

Mike  stabbed  out  with  the  JESUS  SAVES  letter-opener  as  Henry  turned  
back  for  another  go.
Henry ran  into  it  like  a  bug  onto  a  phi.  Warm  blood  doused  Mike's  
hand.  There  was  a  snap,
and  when  he  drew  his  hand  back,  he  only  had  the  haft  of  the  
letter-opener. The blade was in
Henry's stomach.

'Gaaah! Nigger!'  Henry  screamed,  clapping  a  hand  over  the  protruding 
jag of blade. Blood
poured  through  his  fingers.  He  looked  at  it  with  bulging,  unbelieving 
 eyes.  The  head  of  the
end  of  the  creaking,  dipping  jack-in-the-box  squealed  and  laughed.  
Mike,  feeling  sick  and
dizzy  now,  looked  back  at  it  and  saw  Belch  Huggin's head, a human 
champagne cork wearing
a New York Yankees baseball cap turned backward. He groaned aloud, and the 
sound was far
away, echoey, in his own ears. He was aware that he was sitting in a pool of 
warm blood . . .
his own. If I don't get a tourniquet on my leg, I'm going to die.

'Gaaaaaaaaaah!   Neeeeeeegaaaa!'  Henry  screamed.  Still  holding  his  
bleeding  belly  with
one  hand  and  the  switchblade  with  the  other,  he  staggered  away  from  
Mike  and  toward  the
library  doors.  He  wove  drunkenly  from  side  to  side,  progressing  
across  the  echoing  main
room  like  a  pinball  in  an  electronic  game.  He  struck  one  of  the  
easy-chairs  and  knocked  it
over.  His  groping  hand  spilled  a  rack  of  newspapers  onto  the  floor.  
He  reached  the  doors,
straight-armed one of them; and plunged out into the night.

Mike's  consciousness  was  fading  now.  He  worked  at  the  buckle  of  his  
belt  with  fingers  he
could barely feel. At last he got it unhooked and managed to pull it free of 
its loops. He put it
around  his  bleeding  leg  just  below  ht e  groin  and  cinched  it  tight.  
Holding  it  with  one  hand,  he
began to crawl toward the circulation desk. The phone was there. He wasn't sure 
how he was
going  to  reach  it,  but  for  now  that  didn't  matter.  The  trick  was  
just  to  get  there.  The  world
wavered,  blurred,  grew  faint  behind  waves  of  gray.  He  stuck  his  
tongue  out  and  bit  down  on
it  savagely.  The  pain  was  immediate  and  exquisite.  The  world  swam  
back  into  focus.  He
became  aware  that  he  was  still  holding  the  ragged  haft  of  the  
letter-opener,  and  he  tossed it
away. Here, at last, was the circulation desk, looking as tall as Everest.

Mike  got  his  good  leg  under  him  and  pushed  himself  up,  clutching  at 
 the  edge  of  the  desk
with  the  hand  that  wasn't  holding  the  belt  tight.  His  mouth  was  
drawn  down  in  a  trembling
grimace,  his  eyes  slitted.  At  last  he  managed  to  get  all  the  way  
up.  He  stood  there,  storklike,
and groped the telephone over to him. Taped to the side were three numbers: 
fire, police, and
hospital.   With   one   shaking   finger   that   looked   at   least   ten   
miles   away,   Mike   dialed   the
hospital:  555-3711.  He  closed  his  eyes  as  the  phone  began  to  ring  . 
 .  .  and  then  they  opened
wide   as the voice of Pennywise the Clown answered.

'Howdy  nigger!'  Pennywise  cried,  and  then  screamed  laughter  as  sharp  
as  broken  glass into
Mike's ear. 'What do you say? How you doon? I think you're dead, what do you 
think? I think
Henry  did  the  job  on  you!  Want  a  balloon,  Mikey?  Want  a  balloon?  
How  you  doon?  Hello
there!'


Mike's  eyes  turned  up  to  the  face  of  the  grandfather  clock, the 
Mueller Clock, it was called,
and  saw  with  no  surprise  at  ail  that  the  clockface  had  been  
replaced  with  his  father's  face,
gray   and   raddled   with   cancer.   The   eyes   were   turned   up   to   
show   only   bulging   whites.
Suddenly his father popped his tongue out and the clock began to strike.

Mike  lost  his  grip  on  the  circulation  desk.  He  swayed  for  a  moment  
on  his  good  leg  and
then he fell down again. The phone swung before him at the end of its cord like 
a mesmerist's
amulet. It was becoming very hard to hold onto the belt now.

'Hello   dere   Amos!'   Pennywise   cried   brightly   from   the   swinging   
telephone   handset.   'Dis
here's  de  Kingfish!  I  is  de  Kingish  in  Derry  anyhow,  and  dat's  de 
troof. Wouldn't you say so,
boy?'

'If  there's  anyone  there,'  Mike  croaked,  'a  real  voice  behind  the  
one  I  am  hearing,  please
help  me.  My  name  is  Michael  Hanlon  and  I'm  at  the  Derry  Public  
Library.  I  am  bleeding  to
death.  If  you're  there,  I  can't  hear  you.  I'm  not  being  allowed  to  
hear  you.  If  you're  there,
please hurry.'

He  lay on  his  side,  drawing  his  legs  up  until  he  was  in  a  fetal  
position.  He  took  two  turns
around  his  right  hand  with  the  belt  and  concentrated  on  holding  it  
as  the  world  drifted  away
in those cottony, balloon-like clouds of gray.

'Hello   dere,   howyadoon?'   Pennywise   screamed   from   the   dangling,   
swinging   phone.
'Howyadoon, you dirty coon? Hello

4

Kansas Street / 12:20 P.M.

. . . there,' Henry Bowers said. 'Howyadoon, you little cunt?'

Beverly  reacted  instantly,  turning  to  run.  It  was  a  quicker  reaction  
than  any  of  them  had
expected,  and  she  might  actually  have  gotten  a  running  start  .  .  .  
but  for  her  hair.  Henry
snatched  at  it,  caught  part  of  its  long  flow,  and  pulled  her  back.  
He  grinned  into  her  face.  His
breath was thick and warm and stinking.

'Howyadoon?'  Henry  Bowers  asked  her.  'Where  ya  goin?  Back  to  play  
with  your  asshole
friends some more? I think I'll cut off your nose and make you eat it. You like 
that?'

She  struggled  to  get  free.  Henry  laughed  and  shook  her  head  back  
and  forth  by  the hair.

The knife flashed dangerously in the hazy August sunshine.

Abruptly a car-horn honked — a long blast.

'Here! Here! What are you boys doing? Let that girl go!'

It  was  an  old  lady  behind  the  wheel  of  a  well-preserved  1950  Ford.  
She  had  pulled up to
the  curb  and  was  leaning  across  the  blanket-covered  seat  to  peer  out 
 the  passenger-side
window.  At  the  sight  of  her  angry,  honest  face,  the  blank,  dazed  
look  left  Victor  Criss's  eyes
for the first time and he looked nervously at Henry. 'What — '

'Please!' Bev cried shrilly. 'He's got a knife! A knife!'

The  old  lady's  anger  now  became  concern,  surprise,  and  fear  as  well. 
 'What  are  you  boys
doing? Let her alone!'

Across  the  street  —  Bev  saw  this  quite  clearly  —  Herbert  Ross  got  
out  of  the  lawn-chair

on  his  porch,  approached  the  porch  rail,  and  looked  over.  His  face  
was  as  blank  as  Belch
Huggins's. He folded his paper, turned, and went quietly into the house.

'Let her be!' the old lady cried shrilly.

Henry  bared  his  teeth  and  suddenly  ran  at  her  car,  dragging  Beverly  
after  him  by  the  hair.
She  stumbled,  went  to  one  knee,  was  dragged.  The  pain  in  her  scalp  
was  excruciating,
monstrous. She felt some of her hair rip out.


The  old  lady  screamed  and  cranked  the  passenger  side  window  
frantically.  Henry,  still
roaring,  stabbed  down,  and  the  switchblade  skated  across  glass.  The  
woman's  foot  came  off
the  old  Ford's  clutch-pedal  and  it  went  down  Kansas  Street  in  three  
big  jerks,  bouncing  up
over  the  curb,  where  it  stalled.  Henry  went  after  it,  still  pulling  
Beverly  along.  Victor  licked
his  lips  and  looked  around.  Belch  pushed  the  New  York  Yankees  
baseball  cap  he  was
wearing up on his forehead and then dug at his ear in a puzzled gesture.

Bev  saw  the  old  woman's  white,  frightened  face  for  one  moment,  and  
then  saw  her  pawing
at  the  door-locks, first on the passenger side, then on her own. The Ford's 
engine ground and
caught. Henry lifted one booted foot and kicked out a taillight.

'Get outta here, you dried-up old bitch!'

The  tires screamed  as  the  old  lady  pulled  back  out  in  the  street.  
An  oncoming  pickup  truck
swerved  to  avoid  her;  its  horn  blasted.  Henry  turned  back  toward  
Bev,  beginning  to  smile
again, and she hiked one sneakered foot directly into his balls.

The  smile  on  Henry's  face  turned  into  a  grimace  of  agony.  The  
switchknife  dropped  from
his  hand  and  clattered  onto  the  sidewalk.  His  other  hand  left  its  
nesting-place in the tangle of
her  hair  (pulling  once  more,  terribly,  as  it  went)  and  then  he  sank 
 to  his  knees,  trying to
scream, holding his crotch. She could see strands of her own coppery hair on 
one hand, and in
that  instant  all  of  her  terror  turned  to  bright  hate.  She  drew  in  
a  great,  hitching  breath  and
hocked a remarkably large looey onto the top of his head.

Then she turned and ran.

Belch  lumbered  three  steps  after  her  and  then  stopped.  He  and  Victor 
 went  to  Henry,  who
threw  them  aside  and  then  staggered  to  his  feet,  both  hands  still  
cupping  his  balls;  it  was  not
the first time that summer that he had been kicked there.

He leaned over and picked up the switchblade.' . . . on,' he wheezed.
'What, Henry?' Belch said anxiously.

Henry turned a face toward him that was so full of sweating pain and sick, 
blazing hate that

Belch  fell  back  a  step.  'I  said . . . come . . . on!' he managed, and 
began to stagger and lurch
up the street after Beverly, holding his crotch.

'We can't catch her now, Henry,' Victor said uneasily. 'Hell, you can hardly 
walk.'

'We'll  catch  her,'  Henry  panted.  His  upper  lip  was  rising  and  
falling  in  an  unconscious  dog-
like  sneer.  Beads  of  sweat  stood  out  on  his  forehead  and  ran  down  
his  hectic  cheeks.  'We'll
catch  her,  all  right.  Because  I  know  where  she's  going.  She's  going  
down  into  the  Barrens  to
be with her asshole

5

The Derry Town House / 2:00 A.M.

friends,' Beverly said.

'Hmmm?'  Bill  looked  at  her.  His  thoughts  had  been  far  away.  They  
had  been  walking  hand-
in-hand,   the   silence   between   them   companionable,   slightly   charged 
  with   mutual   attraction.
He  had  caught  only the last word of what she had said. A block ahead, the 
lights of the Town
House shone through the low ground-fog.

'I  said,  you  were  my  best  friends.  The  only  friends  I  ever  had  
back  then.'  She  smiled.
'Making  friends  has  never  been  my  strong  suit,  I  guess,  although  
I've  got  a  good  one  back  in
Chicago. A woman named Kay McCall. I think you'd like her, Bill.'

'Probably  would.  I've  never  been  real  fast  to  make  friends  myself.'  
He  smiled.  'Back  then,
we  were  all  we  nuh-nuh-needed.'  He  saw  beads  of  moisture  in  her  
hair,  appreciated  the  way
the lights made a nimbus about her head. Her eyes were turned gravely up to 
his.


'I need something now,' she said.
'W-What's that?'

'I need you to kiss me,' she said.

He  thought  of  Audra,  and  for  the  first  time  it  occurred  to  him  
that  she  looked  like Beverly.
He  wondered  if  maybe  that  had  been  the  attraction  all  along,  the  
reason  he  had  been  able  to
find  guts  enough  to  ask  Audra  out  near  the  end  of  the  Hollywood  
party  where  they  had  been
introduced.  He  felt  a  pang  of  unhappy  guilt  .  .  .  and  then  he  
took  Beverly,  his  childhood
friend,     in his arms.

Her  kiss  was  firm  and  warm  and  sweet.  Her  breasts  pushed  against  
his  open  coat  and  her

hips moved against him . . . away . . . and then against him again. When her 
hips moved away
a  second  tune,  he  plunged  both  of  his  hands  into  her  hair  and  
moved  against  her.  When  she
felt  him  growing  hard,  she  uttered  a  little  gasp  and  put  her  face  
against  the  side  of  his  neck.
He felt her tears on his skin, warm and secret.

'Come on,' she said. 'Quick.'

He took her hand and they walked the rest of the way to the Town House. The 
lobby was
old,  festooned  with  plants,  and  still  possessed  of  a  certain  fading  
charm.  The  decor  was  very
much  Nineteenth  Century  Lumberman.  It  was  deserted  at  this  hour  
except  for  the  desk  clerk,
who  could  be  dimly  seen  in  the  inner  office,  his  feet  cocked  up  on 
 the  desk,  watching  TV.
Bill   pushed   the   third-floor   button   with   a   finger   that   
trembled   just   slightly   —  excitement?
nervousness?  guilt?  all  of  the  above?  Oh  yeah  sure,  and  a  kind  of  
almost  insane  joy  and  fear
as           well.  These  feelings  did  not  mix  pleasantly,  but  they  
seemed  necessary.  He  led  her  down
the  hallway  toward  his  room,  deciding  in  some  confused  way  that  if  
he  were  to  be  unfaithful,
it  should  be  a  complete  act  of  infidelity,  consummated  in  his  place, 
 not  hers.  He  found
himself  thinking  of  Susan  Browne,  his  first  book-agent  and,  at  the  
age  of  not  quite  twenty,  his
first lover.

Cheating.  Cheating  on  my  wife.  He tried to get this  through his head, but 
it seemed both

real   and   unreal   at   the   same   time.   What   seemed   strongest   was 
  an   unhappy   sense   of
homesickness:  an  old-fashioned  feeling  of  falling  away.  Audra  would  be 
 up  by  now,  making
coffee,  sitting  at  the  kitchen  table  in  her  robe,  perhaps studying 
lines, perhaps reading a Dick
Francis novel.

His  key  rattled  in  the  lock  of  room  311.  If  they  had  gone  to  
Beverly's  room  on  the  fifth
floor,  they  would  have  seen  the  message-light  on  her  phone  blinking;  
the  TV-watching desk
clerk  would  have  given  her  a  message  to  call  her  friend  Kay  in  
Chicago  (after  Kay's  third
frantic  call,  he  had  finally  remembered  to  post  the  message),  things  
might  have  taken  a
different  course:  the  five  of  them  might  not  have  been  fugitives  
from  the  Derry  police  when
that day's light finally broke. But they went to his — as things had perhaps, 
been arranged.

The  door  opened.  They  were  inside.  She  looked  at  him,  eyes  bright,  
cheeks  flushed,  her
breast  rising  and  falling  rapidly.  He  took  her  in  his  arms  and  was  
overwhelmed  by  the  feeling
of  rightness  —  the  feeling  of  the  circle  between  past  and  present  
closing  with  a  triumphant
seamlessness.  He  kicked  the  door  shut  clumsily  with  one  foot  and  she 
 laughed  her  warm
breath      into his mouth.

'My heart  — ' She said, and put his hand on her left breast. He could feel it 
below that firm,

almost maddening softness, racing like an engine.
'Your h-h-heart — '

'My heart.'

They  were  on  the  bed,  still  dressed,  kissing.  Her  hand  slipped  
inside  his  shirt,  then  out
again. She traced a finger down the row of buttons, paused at his waist . . . 
and then that same
finger  slipped  lower,  tracing  down  the  stony  thickness  of  his  cock.  
Muscles  he  hadn't  been
aware  of  jumped  and  fluttered  in  his  groin.  He  broke  the  kiss  and  
moved his body away from
hers on the bed.


'Bill?'

'Got  to  stuh-stuh-stop  for  a  m-m-minute,'  he  said.  'Or  else  I'm  
going  to  shoot  in  my  p-p-
pants like a k-kid.'

She   laughed   again,   softly,   and   looked   at   him.   'Is   it   that?  
 Or   are   you   having   second

thoughts?'

'Second thoughts,' Bill said. 'I a-a-always have those.'
'I don't. I hate him,' she said.

He looked at her, the smile fading.

'I didn't know it all the way to the top of my mind until tonight,' she said. 
'Oh, I knew it  —
somewhere  —  all along, I guess. He hits and he hurts. I married him because . 
. . because my
father always worried about me, I guess. No matter how hard I tried, he 
worried. And I guess
I  knew  he'd  approve  of  Tom.  Because  Tom  would  worry,  too.  He  
worried  a  lot.  And  as  long
as  someone  was  worrying  about  me,  I'd  be  safe.  More  than  safe.   
Real.'  She looked at him
solemnly.  Her  blouse  had  pulled  out  of  the  waistband  of  her  slacks,  
revealing  a  white  stripe  of
stomach.  He  wanted  to  kiss  it.  'But  it  wasn't  real.  It  was  a  
nightmare.  Being  married  to  Tom
was  like  going  back  into  the  nightmare.  Why  would  a  person  do  that, 
 Bill?  Why  would  a
person go back into the nightmare of her own accord?'

Bill  said,  'The  o-o-only  reason  I  can  f-figure  is  that  p-people  go  
back  to  f-f-find thems-s-
selves.'

'The  nightmare's  here,'  Bev  said.  'The  nightmare  is  Derry.  Tom  looks  
small  compared  to
that.  I  can  see  him  better  now.  I  loathe  myself  for  the  years  I  
spent  with  him  .  .  .  You  don't
know  .  .  .  the  things  he  made  me  do,  and  oh,  I  was  happy  enough  
to  do  them,  you  know,
because he worried about me. I'd cry . . . but sometimes there's too much 
shame. You know?'

'Don't,'  he  said  quietly,  and  put  his  hand  over  hers.  She  held  it  
tightly.  Her  eyes  were

overbright,  but  the  tears  didn't  fall.  E'  verybody  g-g-goofs  it.  But  
it's  not  an  eh-eh-exam. You

just go through it the b-b-best you can.'

"What  I  mean,'  she  said,  'is  that  I'm  not  cheating  on  Tom,  or  
trying  to  use  you  to  get  my
own  back  on  him,  or  anything  like  that.  For  me,  it  would  be  like  
something  .  .  .  sane  and
normal  and  sweet.  But  I  don't  want  to  hurt  you,  Bill.  Or  trick  you 
 into  something  you'll  be
sorry for later.'

He  thought  about  this,  thought  about  it  with  a  real  and  deep  
seriousness.  But  the  odd  little
mnemonic  —  he  thrusts  his  fists,  and so on  —  had  begun  to  circle  
back,  breaking  into  his
thoughts.  It  had  been  a  long  day.  Mike's  call  and  the  invitation  to 
 lunch  at  Jade  of  the  Orient
seemed   a   hundred   years   ago.   So   many   stories   since   then.   So  
 many   memories,   like
photographs from George's album.

'Friends  don't  t-t-trick  each  o-other,'  he  said,  and  leaned  toward  
her  on  the  bed.  Their  lips
touched  and  he  began  to  unbutton  her  blouse.  One  of  her  hands  went  
to  the  back  of  his  neck
and  held  him  closer  while  the  other  first  unzipped her slacks and then 
pushed them down. For
a  moment  his  hand  was  on  her  stomach,  warm;  then  her  panties  were  
gone  in  a  whisper;  then
he nudged and she guided.

As he entered her, she arched her back gently toward the thrust of his sex and 
muttered, 'Be
my friend . . . I love you, Bill.'

'I  love  you  too,'  he  said,  smiling  against  her  bare  shoulder.  They  
began  slowly  and  he  felt
sweat  begin  to  flow  out  of  his  skin  as  she  quickened  beneath  him.  
His  consciousness  began  to
drain  downward,  becoming  focused  more  and  more  strongly  on  their  
connection.  Her  pores
had opened, releasing a lovely musky odor.

Beverly  felt  her  climax  coming.  She  moved  toward  it,  working  for  it, 
 never  doubting  that  it
would  come.  Her  body  suddenly  stuttered  and  seemed  to  leap  upward,  
not  orgasming  but
reaching  a  plateau  far  above  any  she  had  reached  with  Tom  or  the  
other  two  lovers  she  had
had  before  Tom.  She  became  aware  that  this  wasn't  going  to  be  just  
a  come;  it  was  going  to


be  a  tactical  nuke.  She  became  a  little  afraid  .  .  .  but  her  body 
 picked  up  the  rhythm  again.
She  felt  Bill's  long  length  stiffen  against  her,  his  whole  body  
suddenly  becoming  as  hard  as
the  part  of  him  inside  herself,  and  at  that  same  moment  she  
climaxed  —  began  to climax;
pleasure  so  great  it  was  nearly  agony  spilled  out  of  unsuspected 
floodgates,  and  she  bit  down
on    his shoulder to stifle her cries.

'Oh  my  God,'  Bill  gasped,  and  although  she  was  never  sure  later,  
she  believed  he  was
crying.  He  pulled  back  and  she  thought  he  was  going  to  withdraw  
from  her  —  she tried to
prepare  for  that  moment,  which  always  brought  a  fleeting,  inexplicable 
 sense  of  loss  and
emptiness,  something  like  a  footprint  —  and  then  he  thrust  forward  
strongly  again.  Right
away  she  had  a  second  orgasm,  something  she  hadn't  known  was  
possible  for  her,  and  the
window  of  memory  opened  again  and  she  saw  birds,  thousands  of  birds, 
 descending  onto
every  roofpeak  and  telephone  line  and  RFD  mailbox  in  Derry,  spring  
birds  against  a  white
April  sky,  and  there  was  pain  mixed  with  pleasure  —  but mostly it was 
low, as a white spring
sky  seems  low.  Low  physical  pain  mixed  with  low  physical  pleasure  
and  sense  of  affirmation.
She had bled . . . she had . . . had . . .

'All of you?' she cried suddenly, her eyes widening, stunned.

He  did  pull  back  and  out  of  her  this  time,  but  in  the  sudden  
shock  of  the  revelation,  she
barely felt him go.

'What? Beverly? A-Are you all r — '

'All of you? I made love to all of you?'

She saw shocked surprise on Bill's face, the drop of his jaw . . .  and sudden 
understanding.

But it was not her revelation; even in her own shock she saw that. It was his 
own.
'We — '

'Bill? What is it?'

'That  was  y-y-your  way  to  get  us  out,'  he  said,  and  now  his  eyes  
blazed  so  brightly  they
frightened  her.  'Beverly, duh-duh-don't  you  uh-understand?  That  was  
y-y-your  way  to  get  us
out! We all . . . but we were . . . ' Suddenly he looked frightened, unsure.

'Do you remember the rest now?' she asked.

He shook his head slowly. 'Not the spuh-spuh-specifics. But . . . ' He looked 
at her, and she
saw  he  was  badly  frightened.  'What  it  really  c-c-came  down  to  was  
we  wuh-wuh-wished  our
way out. And I'm not s-sure . . . Beverly, I'm not sure that grownups can do 
that.'

She  looked  at  him  without  speaking  for  a  long moment, and sat on the 
edge of the bed and
took  her  clothes  off  with  no  particular  self-consciousness.  Her  body  
was  smooth  and  lovely,
the  line  of  her  backbone  barely  discernible  in  the  dimness  as  she  
bent  to  take  off  the  knee-
high  nylon  stockings  she  had  been  wearing.  Her  hair  was  a  sheaf  
coiled  over  one  shoulder.
He  thought  he  would  want  her  again  before  morning,  and  that  feeling  
of  guilt  came  again,
tempered  only  by  the  guilty  comfort  of  knowing  that  Audra  was  an  
ocean  away.  Put another
nickle in the juke-box, he thought. This tune is called 'What She Don't Know 
Won't Hurt Her.'
But it hurts somewhere. In the spaces between people, maybe.

Beverly got up and turned the bed down. 'Come to bed. We need sleep. Both of 
us.'

'A-A-All  right.'  Because  that  was  right,  that  was  a  big  ten-four.  
More  than  anything else he
wanted  to  sleep  .  .  .  but  not  alone,  not  tonight.  The  latest  shock 
 was  wearing  off  —  too
quickly,  perhaps,  but  he  felt  so  tired  now,  so  used-up.  
Second-to-second  reality  had  the
quality  of  a  dream,  and  in  spite  of  the  guilt  he  felt,  he  also  
felt  that  this  was  a  safe  place.  It
would  be  possible  to  lie  here  for  a  little  while,  to  sleep  in  her  
arms.  He  wanted  her  warmth
and her friendliness. Both were sexually charged, but that could hurt neither 
of them now.

He  stripped  off  his  socks  and  shirt  and  got  in  next  to  her.  She  
pressed  against  him,  her
breasts  warm,  her  long  legs  cool.  Bill  held  her,  aware  of  the  
differences  —  her  body  was
longer than Audra's, and fuller at the breast and the hip. But it was a welcome 
body.


It  should  have  been  Ben  with  you,  dear,  he thought drowsily.  I think  
that  was  the  way  it
was really supposed to be. Why wasn't it Ben?

Because  it  was  you  then  and  it's  you  now,  that's  all.  Because  what  
goes  around  always
comes around. I think Bob Dylan said that . . . or maybe it was Ronald Reagan. 
And maybe
it's me now because Ben's the one who's supposed to see the lady home.

Beverly  wriggled  against  him,  not  in  a  sexual  way  (although,  even  as 
 he  fled  toward  sleep,
she  felt  him  stir  again  against  her  leg  and  was  glad),  but  only  
wanting  his  warmth.  She  was
already  half  asleep  herself.  Her  happiness  here  with  him,  after  all  
these  years,  was  real.  She
knew  that  because  of  its  bitter  undertaste.  There  was  tonight,  and  
perhaps  there  would  be
another  tune  for  them  tomorrow  morning.  Then  they  would  go  down  in  
the  sewers  as  they
had  before,  and  they  would  find  their  It.  The  circle  would  close  
even  tighter  and  their  present
lives  would  merge  smoothly  with  their  own  childhoods;  they  would  
become  like  creatures  on
some crazy Moebius strip.

Either that, or they would die down there.

She  turned  over.  He  slipped  an  arm  between  her  side  and  her  arm  
and  cupped  one  breast
gently.  She  did  not  have  to  lie  awake,  wondering  if  ht e hand might 
suddenly clamp down in a
hard pinch.

Her   thoughts   began   to   break   up   as   sleep   slid   into   her.   As 
  always,   she   saw   brilliant
wildflower  patterns  as  she  crossed  over  —  masses  and  masses  of  them  
nodding  brightly
under      a  blue  sky.  These  faded  and there was a falling sensation  —  
the  sort  of  sensation  that
had  sometimes  snapped  her  awake  and  sweating  as  a  child,  a  scream  
on  the  other  side  of  her
face.   Childhood   dreams   of   falling,   she   had   read   in   her   
college   psychology   text,   were
common.

But  she  didn't  snap  back  this  time;  she  could  feel  the  warm  and  
comforting  weight  of  Bill's
arm,  his  hand  cradling  her  breast.  She  thought  that  if  she  was  
falling,  at  least  she  wasn't
falling alone.

Then  she  touched  down  and  was  running:  this  dream,  whatever  it was, 
moved fast. She ran
after  it,  pursuing  sleep,  silence,  maybe  just  time.  The  years  moved  
fast.  The  years  ran.  If  you
turned  around  and  ran  after  your  own  childhood,  you'd  have  to  really 
 let  out  your  stride  and
bust  your  buns.  Twenty-nine,  the  year  she  had  streaked  her  hair  
(faster).  Twenty-two,  the
year  she  had  fallen  in  love  with  a  football  player  named  Greg  
Mallory  who  had  damn  near
raped  her  after  a  fraternity  party  (faster,   faster).  Sixteen,  getting 
  drunk  with  two  of  her
girlfriends on the Bluebird Hill Overlook in Portland. Fourteen . . . . . . 
twelve . . .

faster, faster, faster . . .

She  ran  into  sleep,  chasing  twelve,  catching  it,  running  through  the  
barrier  of  memory  that
It  had  cast  over  all  of  them  (it  tasted  like  cold  fog  in  her  
laboring dreamlungs), running back
into  her  eleventh  year,  running,  running  like  hell,  running  to  beat  
the  devil,  looking  back  now,
looking back

6

The Barrens / 12:40 P.M.

over  her  shoulder  for  any  sign  of  them  as  she  slipped  and  scrambled 
 her  way  down the
embankment.  No  sign,  at  least  not  yet.  She  had  'really  fetched  it  
to  him,'  as  her  father
sometimes   said   .   .   .   and   just   thinking   of   her   father   
brought   another   wave   of   guilt   and
despondency washing over her.

She  looked  under  the  rickety  bridge,  hoping to see Silver heeled over on 
his side, but Silver
was  gone.  There  was  a  cache  of  toy  guns  which  they  no  longer  
bothered  to  take  home,  and


that  was  all.  She  started  down  the  path,  looked  back  .  .  .  and  
there  they  were,  Belch  and
Victor  supporting  Henry  between  them,  standing  on  the  edge  of  the  
embankment  like  Indian
sentries  in  a  Randolph  Scott  movie.  Henry  was  horribly  pale.  He  
pointed  at  her.  Victor  and
Belch began to help him down the slope. Dirt and gravel spilled from beneath 
their heels.

Beverly   looked   at   them   for   a   long   moment,   almost   hypnotized.  
 Then   she   turned   and
sprinted  through  the  trickle  of  brook-water  that  ran  out  from  under  
the  bridge,  ignoring  Ben's
stepping-stones,  her  sneakers  spraying  out  flat  sheets  of  water.  She  
ran  down  the  path, the
breath  hot  in  her  throat.  She  could  feel  the  muscles  in  her  legs  
trembling.  She  didn't  have
much left now. The clubhouse. If she could get there, she might still be safe.

She  ran  along  the  path,  branches  whipping  even  more  color  into  her  
cheeks,  one  striking
her  eye  and  making  it  water.  She  cut  to  the  right,  blundered  
through  tangles  of  underbrush,
and  came  out  into  the  clearing.  Both  the  camouflaged  trapdoor  and  
the  slit  window  stood
open; rock n roll drifted up. At the sound of her approach, Ben Hanscom popped 
up. He had a
box of Junior Mints in one hand and an Archie comic book in the other.

He  got  a  good  look  at  Bev  and  his  mouth  fell  open.  Under  other  
circumstances  it  would
have been almost funny. 'Bev, what the hell —

She  didn't  bother  replying.  Behind  her,  and  not  too  far  behind,  
either,  she  could  hear
branches  snapping  and  whipping;  there  was  a  muffled  shouted  curse.  It 
 sounded  as  if  Henry
was  getting  livelier.  So  she  just  ran  at  the  square  trapdoor  
opening,  her  hair,  tangled  now with
green  leaves  and  twigs  as  well  as  the  crud  from  her  scramble  under  
the  garbage  truck,
streaming out behind her.

Ben saw she was coming in like the 101st Airborne and disappeared as quickly as 
he had

come out. Beverly jumped and he caught her clumsily.

'Shut everything,' she panted. 'Hurry up, Ben, for heaven's sake! They're 
coming!'
'Who?'

'Henry and his friends! Henry's gone crazy, he's got a knife — '

That  was  enough  for  Ben.  He  dropped  his  Junior  Mints  and  his  funny  
book.  He  pulled the
trapdoor  shut  with  a  grunt.  The  top  was  covered  with  sods;  Tangle 
-Track  was  still  holding
them  remarkably  well.  A  few  blocks  of  sod  had  gotten  a  little  
loose,  but  that  was  all.  Beverly
stood on tiptoe and closed the window. They were in darkness.

She  groped  for  Ben,  found  him,  and  hugged  him  with  panicky  
tightness.  After  a  moment
he  hugged  her  back.  They  were  both  on  their  knees.  With  sudden  
horror  Beverly  realized  that
Richie's  transistor  radio  was  still  playing  somewhere  in  the  
blackness:  Little  Richard  singing
'The Girl Can't Help It.'

'Ben . . . the radio . . . they'll hear . . . '
'Oh God!'

He bunted her with one meaty hip and almost knocked her sprawling in the dark. 
She heard
the  radio  fall  to  the  floor.  'The  girl  can't  help  it  if  the  
menfolks  stop  and  stare,'  Little  Richard
informed   them   with   his   customary   hoarse   enthusiasm.   'Can't   help 
  it!'   the   back-up  group
testified,  'the  girl  can't  help  it!'  Ben  was  panting  now,  too.  They  
sounded  like  a  couple  of
steam-engines. Suddenly the re was a crunch . . . and silence.

'Oh shit,' Ben said. 'I just squashed it. Richie's gonna have a bird.' He 
reached for her in the

dark.  She  felt  his  hand  touch  one  of  her  breasts,  then  jerk  away,  
as  if  burned.  She  groped  for
him, got hold of his shirt, and drew him close.

'Beverly, what — '
'Shhh!'

He  quieted.  They  sat  together,  arms  around  each  other,  looking  up.  
The  darkness  was  not
quite perfect; there was a narrow line of light down one side of the trapdoor, 
and three others
outlined  the  slit  window.  One  of  these  three  was  wide  enought  to  
let  a  slanted  ray  of  sunlight
fall into the clubhouse. She could only pray they wouldn't see it.


She could hear them approaching. At first she couldn't make out the words . . . 
and then she
could. Her grip on Ben tightened.

'If she went into the bamboo, we can pick up her trail easy,' Victor was 
saying.

'They  play  around  here,'  Henry  replied.  His  voice  was  strained,  his  
words  emerging  in  little
puffs,  as  if  with  great  effort.  'Boogers  Taliendo  said  so.  And  the  
day  we  had  that  rockfight,
they were coming from here.'

'Yeah, they play guns and stuff,' Belch said.

Suddenly  there  were  thudding  footfalls  right  above  them;  the  
sod-covered  cap  vibrated  up
and  down.  Dirt  sifted  onto  Beverly's  upturned  face.  One,  two,  maybe  
even  all  three  of  them
were  standing  on  top  of  the  clubhouse.  A  cramp  laced her belly; she 
had to bite down against
a cry. Ben put one big hand on the side of her face and pressed it against his 
arm as he looked
up,  waiting  to  see  if  they  would  guess  .  .  .  or  if  they  knew  
already  and  were  just  playing
games.

'They  got  a  place,'  Henry  was  saying.  'That's  what  Boogers  told  me.  
Some  kind  of  a
treehouse or something. They call it their club.'

'I'll  club  em,  if  they  want  a  club,'  Victor  said.  Belch  uttered  a  
thunderous  heehawing  of
laughter at this.

Thump,  thump,  thump,   overhead.  The  cap  moved  up  and  down  a  little  
more  this  time.

Surely they would notice it; ordinary ground just didn't have that kind of give.
'Let's look down by the river,' Henry said. 'I bet she's down there.'
'Okay,' Victor said.

Thump,  thump.   They  were  moving  off.  Bev  let  a  little  sigh  of  
relief  trickle  through  her

clamped teeth . . . and then Henry said: 'You stay here and guard the path, 
Belch.'

'Okay,'  Belch  said,  and  he  began  to  march  back  and  forth,  sometimes  
leaving  the  cap,
sometimes  coming  back  across  it.  More  dirt  sifted  down.  Ben  and  
Beverly  looked  at  each
other  with  strained,  dirty  faces.  Bev  became  aware  that  there  was  
more  than  the  smell  of
smoke  in  the  clubhouse  —  a  sweaty,  garbag  stink  was  rising  as  well. 
 That's me,  she thought
dismally.  In  spite  of  the  smell  she  hugged  Ben  even  tighter.  His  
bulk  seemed  suddenly  very
welcome,  very  comforting,  and  she  was  glad  there  was  a  lot  of  him  
to  hug.  He  might  have
been  nothing  but  a  frightened  fat-boy  when  school  let  out  for  the  
summer,  but  he  was  more
than that now; like all of them, he had changed. If Belch discovered them down 
here, Ben just
might give him a surprise.

'I'll  club  em  if  they  want  a  club,'  Belch  said,  and  chuckled.  A  
Belch  Huggins  chuckle  was  a
low,  troll-like  sound.  'Club  em  if  they  want  a  club.  That's  good.  
That's  pretty  much  okey-
dokey.'

She  became  aware  that  Ben's  upper  body  was  heaving  up  and  down  in  
short,   sharp
movements;  he  was  pulling  air  into  his  lungs  and  letting  it  out  in  
sharp  little  bursts.  For  one
alarmed  moment  she  thought  he  was  starting  to  cry,  and  then  she  got 
 a  closer  look  at  his  face
and  realized  he  was  struggling  against  laughter.  His  eyes,  leaking  
tears,  caught  hers,  rolled
madly,  and  looked  away.  In  the  faint  light  which  leaked  in  through  
the  cracks  around  the
closed  trapdoor  and  the  window,  she  could  see  his  face  was  nearly  
purple  with  the  strain  of
holding it in.

'Club  em  if  they  want  an  ole  clubby-dubby,'  Belch  said,  and  sat  
down  heavily  right  in  the
center  of  the  cap.  This  time  the  roof  trembled  more  alarmingly,  and  
Bev  heard  a  low  but
ominous crrrack  from  one  of  the  supports.  The  cap  had  been  meant  to  
support  the  chunks  of
camouflaging  sod  laid  on  top  of  it  .  .  .  but  not  the  added  one  
hundred  and  sixty  pounds  of
Belch Huggins's weight.

If  he  doesn't  get  up  he's  going  to  land  in  our  laps,  Bev thought, 
and she began to catch
Ben's  hysteria.  It  was  trying  to  boil  out  of  her  in  rancid  whoops  
and  brays. In her mind's eye
she  suddenly  saw  herself  pushing  the  window  up  enough  on  its  hinges  
for  her  hand  to  creep


out and administer a really good goose to Belch Huggins's backside as he sat 
there in the hazy
afternoon  sunshine,  muttering  and  giggling.  She  buried  her  face  
against  Ben's  chest  in  a  last-
ditch effort to keep it inside.

'Shhh,' Ben whispered. 'For Christ's sake, Bev — '

Ctrrrackk. Louder this time.
'Will it hold?' she whispered back.

'It  might,  if  he  doesn't  fart,'  Ben  said,  and  a  moment  later  Belch 
did  cut one  — a loud and
fruity  trumpet-blast that seemed to go on for at least three seconds. They 
held each other even
tighter,  muffling  each  other's  frantic  giggles.  Beverly's  head  hurt  so 
 badly  that  she  thought
she might soon have a stroke.

Then, faintly, she heard Henry yelling Belch's name.

'What'?'  Belch  bellowed,  getting  up  with  a  thump  and  a  thud  that  
sifted  more  dirt  down  on
Ben and Beverly. 'What, Henry?'

Henry yelled something back; Beverly could only make out the words bank and 
bushes.

'Okay!'  Belch  bawled,  and  his  feet  crossed  the  cap  for  the  last  
time.  There  was  a  final
cracking  noise,  this  one  much  louder,  and  a  splinter  of  wood  landed  
in  Bev's  lap.  She  picked
it up wonderingly.

'Five more minutes,' Ben said in a low whisper. 'That's all it would have 
taken.'
'Did you hear him when he let go?' Beverly asked, beginning to giggle again.
'Sounded like World War III,' Ben said, also beginning to laugh.

It was a relief to be able to let it out, and they laughed wildly, trying to do 
it in whispers.

Finally,  unaware  she  was  going  to  say  it  at  all  (and  certainly  not  
because  it  had  any
discernible bearing on this situation), Beverly said: Thank you for the poem, 
Ben.'

Ben  stopped  laughing  all  at  once  and  regarded  her  gravely,  
cautiously.  He  took  a  dirty

handkerchief from his back pocket and wiped his face with it slowly. 'Poem?'
The haiku. The haiku on the postcard. You sent it, didn't you?'

'No,'  Ben  said.  'I  didn't  send  you any haiku. Cause if a kid like me  — a 
fat kid like me  —
did something like that, the girl would probably laugh at him.'

'I didn't laugh. I thought it was beautiful.'

'I could never write anything beautiful. Bill, maybe. Not me.'

'Bill  will write,'  she  agreed.  'But  he'll  never  write  anything  as  
nice  as  that.  May  I  use  your
handkerchief?'

He gave it to her and she began to clean her face as best she could.
'How did you know it was me?' he asked finally.

'I don't know,' she said. 'I just did.'

Ben's  throat  worked  convulsively.  He  looked  down  at  his  hands.  'I  
didn't  mean  anything  by

it.'

She  looked  at  him  gravely.  'You  better  not  mean  that,'  she  said.  
'If  you  do, it's really going

to spoil my day, and I'll tell you, it's going downhill already.'

He continued to look down at his hands and spoke at last in a voice she could 
barely hear.
'Well, I mean I love you, Beverly, but I don't want that to  spoil anything.'

'It won't,' she said, and hugged him. 'I need all the love I can get right 
now.'

'But you specially like Bill.'

'Maybe  I  do,'  she  said,  'but  that  doesn't  matter.  If  we  were  
grown-ups, maybe it would, a
little. But I like you all specially. You're the only friends I have. I love 
you too, Ben.'

'Thank  you,' he said. He paused, trying, and brought it out. He was even able 
to look at her

as he said it. 'I wrote the poem.'

They  sat  without  saying  anything  for  a  little  while.  Beverly  felt  
safe.  Protected. The images
of  her  father's  face  and  Henry's  knife  seemed  less  vivid  and  
threatening  when  they  sat  close
like  this.  That  sense  of  protection  was  hard  to  define  and  she  
didn't  try,  although  much  later


she  would  recognize  the  source  of  its  strength:  she  was  in  the  arms 
 of  a  male  who  would  die
for  her  with  no  hesitation  at  all.  It  was  a  fact  that  she  simply  
knew:  it  was  in  the  scent  that
came from his pores, something utterly primitive that her own glands could 
respond to.

'The others were coming back,' Ben said suddenly. 'What if they get caught 
out?'

She  straightened  up,  aware  that  she  had  almost  been  dozing.  Bill,  
she  remembered,  had
invited  Mike  Hanlon  home  to  lunch  with  him.  Richie  was  going  to  go  
home  with  Stan  and
have  sandwiches.  And  Eddie  had  promised  to  bring  back  his  Parcheesi  
board.  They  would be
arriving soon, totally unaware that Henry and his friends were in the Barrens.

'We've got to get to them,' Beverly said. 'Henry's not just after me.'

'If we come out and they come back — '

'Yes,  but  at  least  we  know  they're  here.  Bill  and the other guys 
don't. Eddie can't even run,
they already broke his arm.'

'Jeezum-crow,' Ben said. 'I guess we'll have to chance it.'

'Yeah.' She swallowed and looked at her Timex. It was hard to read in the 
dimness, but she
thought it was a little past one. 'Ben . . . '

'What?'

'Henry's  really  gone  crazy.  He's  like  that  kid  in  The  Blackboard  
Jungle.  He was going to
kill me and the other two were going to help him.'

'Aw, no,' Ben said. 'Henry's crazy, but not that crazy. He's just . . . '

'Just  what?'  Beverly  said.  She  thought  of  Henry  and  Patrick  in  the  
automobile  graveyard  in
the thick sunshine. Henry's blank eyes.

Ben  didn't  answer.  He  was  thinking.  Things  had  changed,  hadn't  they?  
When  you  were

inside the changes, they were  harder to see. You had to step back to see them 
. . . you had to
try,  anyway.  When  school  let  out  he'd  been  afraid  of  Henry,  but  
only  because  Henry  was
bigger,  and  because  he  was  a  bully  —  the  kind  of  kid  who  would  
grab  a  firstgrader,  Indian-
rub  his  arm  and send him away crying. That was about all. Then he had 
engraved Ben's belly.
Then  there  had  been  the  rockfight,  and  Henry  had  been  chucking  M-80s 
 at  people's  heads.
You  could  kill  somebody  with  one  of  those  things.  You  could  kill  
somebody  easy.  He  had
started  to  look  different  .  .  .  haunted,  almost.  It  seemed  that  you 
 always  had  to  be  on  the
watch for him, the way you'd always have to be on the watch for tigers or 
poisonous snakes if
you  were  in  the  jungle.  But  you  got  used  to  it;  so  used  to  it  
that  it  didn't even seem unusual,
just  the  way  things  were.  But  Henry was  crazy,  wasn't  he?  Yes.  Ben  
had  known  that  on  the
day  school  ended,  and  had  willfully  refused  to  believe  it,  or  
remember  it.  It  wasn't  the  kind  of
thing  you  wanted  to  believe  or  remember.  And  suddenly a thought  —  a  
thought  so  strong  it
was  almost  a  certainty   —  crept  into  his  mind  full-blown,  as  cold  
as  October  mud.  It's using
Henry. Maybe the others too, but It's using them through Henry. And if that's 
the truth, then
she's probably right. It's not just Indian rubs or rabbit-punches in the back 
of the neck during
study-time near the end of the schoolday while Mrs Douglas reads her book at 
her desk, not
just a push on the playground so that you fall down and skin your knee. If It's 
using him, then
Henry will use the knife.

'An old lady saw them trying to beat me up,' Beverly was saying. 'Henry went 
after  her.  He

kicked her taillight out.'

This  alarmed  Ben  more  than  anything  else.  He  understood  instinctively, 
 as  most  kids  did,
that  they  lived  below  the  sight-lines,  and  hence  the  thought-lines,  
of  most  adults.  When  a
grownup  was  ditty-bopping  down  the  street,  thinking  his  grownup  
thoughts  about  work  and
appointments  and  buying  cars  and  whatever  else  grownups  thought  about, 
 he  never  noticed
kids  playing  hopscotch  or  guns  or  kick-the-can  or  ring-a-levio  or  
hide-and-go-seek. Bullies
like  Henry  could  get  away  with  hurting  other  kids  quite  a  lot  if  
they  were  careful  to  stay
below  that  sightline.  At  the  very  most,  a  passing  adult  was  apt  to  
say  something  like,  "Why
don't  you  quit  that?'  and  then  just  continue  ditty-bopping  along  
without  waiting  to  see  if  the


bully stopped or not. So the bully would wait until the grownup had turned the 
corner . . . and
then  go  back  to  business  as  usual.  It  was  like  adults  thought  that  
real  life  only  started  when  a
person was five feet tall.

If  Henry  had  gone  after  some  old  lady,  he  had  gone  above  that  
sight-line. And that more
than anything else suggested to Ben that he really was crazy.

Beverly  saw  the  belief  ni  Ben's  face  and  felt  relief  sweep  over  
her.  She  would  not  have  to

tell  him  about  how  Mr  Ross  had  simply  folded  his  paper  and  walked  
into  his  house.  She
didn't want to tell him about that. It was too scary.

'Let's  go  up  to  Kansas  Street,'  Ben  said,  and abruptly pushed open the 
trapdoor. 'Get ready

to run.'

He  stood  up  in  the  opening  and  looked  around.  The  clearing  was  
silent.  He  could  hear  the
chuckling  voice  of  the  Kenduskeag  close  by,  birdsong,  the  
thum-thud-thum-thud  of  a  diesel
engine  snorting  its  way  into  the  trainyards.  He  heard  nothing  else  
and  that  made  him  uneasy.
He  would  have  felt  much  better  if  he'd  heard  Henry,  Victor,  and  
Belch  cursing  their  way
through the neavy undergrowth down by the stream. But he couldn't hear them at 
all.

Come  on,'  he  said,  and  helped  Beverly  up.  She  also  looked  around  
uneasily,  brushing her
hair back with her hands and grimacing at its greasy feel.

He took her hand and they pushed through a screen of bushes toward Kansas 
Street. 'We'd
better stay off the path.'

'No,' she said, 'we've got to hurry.'
He nodded. 'All right.'

They  got  to  the  path  and  started  toward  Kansas  Street.  Once  she  
stumbled  over  a  rock  in

the path and

7

The Seminary Grounds / 2:17 A.M.

fell heavily on the moon-silvered  sidewalk.  A  grunt  was  forced  out  of  
him,  and  a  runner  of
blood  came  with  the  grunt,  splatting  on  the  cracked  concrete.  In  the 
 moonlight  it  looked  as
black  as  beetle -blood.  Henry  looked  at  it  for  a  long  dazed  moment,  
then  raised  his  head  to
look around.

Kansas  Street  was  early-morning silent, the houses shut up and dark except 
for a scatter of

nightlights.

Ah. Here was a sewer-grate.

A  balloon  with  a  smiley-smile face was tied to one of its iron bars. It 
bobbed and dipped in
the faint breeze.

Henry  got  to  his  feet  again,  one  sticky  hand  pressed  to  his  belly.  
The  nigger  had  stuck  him

pretty  good,  but  Henry  had  gone  him  one  better.  Yessir.  As  far  as  
the  nigger  was  concerned,
Henry felt like he was pretty much okey-dokey.

'Kid's  a  gone  goose,'  Henry  muttered,  and  made  his  shaky  staggering  
way  past  the  floating
balloon.  Fresh  blood  glimmered  on  his  hand  as  it  continued  to  flow  
from  his  stomach.  'Kid's
all done. Greased the sucker. Gonna grease them all. Teach them to throw 
rocks.'

The  world  was  coming  in  slow-rolling  waves,  big  combers  like  the  
ones  they  used  to  show
at the beginning of every Hawaii Five-O episode on the ward TV

(book em Danno, ha-ha Jack Fuckin Lord okay. Jack Fuckin Lord was pretty much 
okey-
dokey)

and Henry could Henry could Henry could almost

(hear the sound those Oahu big boys make as they rise curl and shake


(shakeshakeskake

(the reality of the world. 'Pipeline.' Chantays. Remember 'Pipeline'? 
'Pipeline' was pretty
much   okey-dokey.   'Wipe-Out.'   Crazy   laugh   there   at   the   start.   
Sounded   like   Patrick
Hockstetter. Fucking queerboy. Got greased himself and as far as I)

he was concerned that was a

(fuck  of  a  lot  better  than  okey-dokey,  that  was  just  FINE,  that  was 
 JUST  AS  FINE  AS
PAINT

(okay Pipeline shoot the line don't back down not my boys catch a wave and
(shoot

(shootshootshoot

(a wave and go sidewalk surfin with me shoot
(the line shoot the world but keep)

an ear inside his head: it kept hearing that  k a-spanggg sound; an eye inside 
his head: it kept
seeing  Victor's  head  rising  on  the  end  of  that  spring,  eyelids  and  
cheeks  and  forehead  tattooed
with rosettes of blood.

Henry  looked  blearily  to  his  left  and  saw  that  the  houses  had  been  
replaced  with  a  tall,
black   stand   of  hedge.  Looming  above  it  was  the  narrow,  gloomily  
Victorian  pile  of  the
Theological  Seminary.  Not  a  window  shone  light.  The  Seminary  had  
graduated  its  last  class
in  June  of  1974.  It  had  closed  its  doors  that  summer,  and  whatever  
walked  there  now  walked
alone  .  .  .  and  only  by  permission  of  the  chattering  women's  club  
that  called  itself  the  Derry
Historical Society.

He  came  to  the  walk  which  led  up  to  the  front  door.  It  was  barred 
 by  a  heavy  chain  from

which a metal sign hung: NO TRESPASSIN THIS ORDER ENFORCED BY DERRY POLICE 
DEPT.

Henry's feet tangled on this track and he fell heavily again  —  whap! —  to 
the sidewalk. Up
ahead,  a  car  turned  onto  Kansas  Street  from  Hawthorne.  Its  headlights 
 washed  down  the
street. Henry fought the dazzle long enough to see the lights on top: it was a 
fuzzmobile.

He  crawled  under  the  chain  and  crabbed  his  way  to  the  left  so  he  
was  behind  the  hedge.
The  night-dew  on  his  hot  face  was  wonderful.  He  lay  face  down,  
turning  his  head  from  side
to side, wetting his cheeks, drinking what he could drink.

The police car floated by without slowing.

Then,  suddenly,  its  bubble-lights  came  on,  washing  the  darkness  with  
erratic  blue  pulses  of
light.  There  was  no  need  for  the  siren  on  the  deserted  streets,  but 
 Henry  heard  its  null
suddenly crank up to full revs. Rubber blistered a startled scream from the 
pavement.

Caught,  I'm  caught,   his  mind  gibbered  .  .  .  and  then  he  realized  
that  the  police-car was
heading  away  from  him,  up  Kansas  Street.  A  moment  later  a  hellish  
warbling sound filled the
night,  heading  toward  him  from  the  south.  He  imagined  some  huge  
silky  black  cat  loping
through  the  dark,  all  green  eyes  and  silky  flexing  pelt,  It  in  a  
new  shape,  coming  for  him,
coming to gobble him up.

Little   by   little   (and   only   as  the  warbling  began  to  veer  away)  
he  realized  it  was  an
ambulance,  heading  in  the  direction  the  fuzz-mobile  had  gone.  He  lay  
shuddering  on  the  wet
grass, too cold now, struggling

(fuzzit cousin buzzit cousin rock it roll it we got chicken in the barn what 
bam whose barn

my)

not to vomit. He was afraid that if he vomited, all of his guts would come up . 
. . and there
were five of them still to get.

Ambulance and police car. Where are they heading? The library, of course. The 
nigger.

But they're too late. I greased him. Might as well turn off your sireen, boys. 
He ain't gonna
hear it. He's just as dead as a fencepost. He —

But was he?


Henry  licked  his  peeling  lips  with  his  arid  tongue.  If  he  was  dead, 
 there  would  be  no
warbling siren in  the night like the cry of a wounded panther. Not unless the 
nigger had called
them. So maybe — just maybe — the nigger wasn't dead.

'No,' Henry breathed. He rolled over on his back and stared up at the sky, at 
the billions of
stars up there. It had come from there, he knew. From somewhere up in that sky 
. . . It

(came from outer space with a lust for Earthwomen came to rob all the women and 
rape

all the men say Frank don't you mean rob all the men and rape all the women 
whoth running
this show, thilly man, you or Jesse? Victor used to tell that one and that was 
pretty much)

came from the spaces between the stars. Looking up at that starry sky gave him 
the creeps:

it  was  too  big,  too  black.  It  was  all  too  possible  to  imagine  it  
turning  blood-red,  all  too
possible to imagine a Face forming in lines of fire . . .

He  closed  his  eyes,  shivering  and  holding  his  arms  crossed  on  his  
belly,  and  he  thought:

The nigger is dead. Someone heard us fighting and sent the cops to investigate, 
that's all.

Then why the ambulance?

'Shut  up,  shut  up,'  Henry  groaned.  He  felt  the  old  baffled  rage  
again;  he  remembered  how
they  had  beaten  him  again  and  again  in  the  old  days  —  old days that 
seemed so close and so
vital  now  —  how,  every  time,  when  he  believed  he  had  them,  they  
had  somehow  slipped
through  his  fingers.  It  had  been  like  that  on  the  last  day,  after  
Belch  saw  the  bitch  running
down  Kansas  Street  toward  the  Barrens.  He  remembered  that,  oh  yes,  
he  remembered  that
clearly  enough.  When  you  got  kicked  in  ht e balls, you remembered it. It 
had happened to him
again and again that summer.

Henry struggled to a sitting position, wincing at the deep dagger of pain in 
his guts.

Victor and Belch had helped him down into the Barrens. He had walked as fast as 
 he could
in spite of the agony that griped and pulled at his groin and the root of his 
belly. The time had
come  to  finish  it.  They  had  followed  the  path  to  a  clearing  from  
which  five  or  six  paths
radiated  like  strands  of  a  spider-web.  Yes,  there  had  been  kids  
playing  around  there;  you
didn't  have  to  be  Tonto  to  see  that.  There  were  scraps  of  
candy-wrapper, the curled tail of a
shot-off  roll  of  Bang  caps,  red  and  black.  A  few  boards  and  a  
fluffy  scatter  of  sawdust,  as  if
something had been built there.

He  remembered  standing  in  the  center  of  the  clearing  and  scanning  
the  trees,  looking  for
their  baby  treehouse.  He  would  spot  it  and  then  he  would  climb  up  
and  the  girl  would  be
cowering  there,  and  he  would  use  the  knife  to  cut  her  throat  and  
feel  her  titties nice and easy
until they stopped moving.

But  he  hadn't  been  able  to  see  any  treehouse;  neither  had  Belch  or  
Victor.  The  old  familiar
frustration  rose  in  his  throat.  He  and  Victor  left  Belch  to  guard  
the  clearing  while  they  went
down  the  river.  But  there  had  been  no  sign  of  her  there,  either.  
He  remembered  bending  over
and picking up a rock and

8

The Barrens / 12:55 P.M.

heaving  it  far  down  the  stream,  furious  and  bewildered.  'Where  the  
fuck  did  she  go?'  he
demanded, wheeling toward Victor.

Victor shook his head slowly. 'Don't know,' he said. 'You're bleeding.'

Henry  looked  down  and  saw  a  dark  spot,  the  size  of  a  quarter,  on  
the  crotch  of  his  jeans.
The  pain  had  withdrawn  to  a  low,  throbbing  ache,  but  his  underpants  
felt  too  small  and  too
tight.  His  balls  were  swelling.  He  felt  that  anger  inside  him  again, 
 something  like  a  knotted
rope around his heart. She had done this.


'Where is she?' he hissed at Victor.

'Don't  know,'  Victor  said  again  in  that  same  dull  voice.  He  seemed  
hypnotized, sunstruck,
not  really  there  at  all.  'Ran  away,  I  guess.  She  could  be  all  the  
way  over  to  the  Old  Cape  by
now.'

'She's  not,'  Henry  said.  'She's  hiding.  They've  got  a  place  and  
she's  hiding  there.  Maybe  it's
not a treehouse. Maybe it's something else.'

'What?'

'I . . . don't . . . know!' Henry shouted, and Victor flinched back.

Henry  stood  in  the  Kenduskeag,  the  cold  water  boiling  over  the  tops  
of  his  sneakers,
looking  around.  His  eyes  fixed  on  a  cylinder  poking  out  of  the  
embankment  about twenty feet
downstream  —  a  pumping-station.  He  climbed  out  of  the  water  and  
walked  down  to  it,
feeling      a  sort  of  necessary  dread  settle  into  him.  His  skin  
seemed  to  be  tightening,  his  eyes
widening  so  that  they  were  able  to  see  more  and  more;  it  seemed he 
could  feel the  tiny  hairs
in        his ears stirring and moving like kelp in an underwater tidal flow.

Low  humming  came  from  the  pumping-station,  and  beyond  it  he  could  
see  a  pipe  jutting
out  of  the  embankment  over  the  Kenduskeag.  A  steady  flow  of  sludge  
pulsed  out  of  the  pipe
and ran into the water.

He leaned over the cylinder's round iron top.

'Henry?' Victor called nervously. 'Henry? What you doing?'

Henry  paid  no  attention.  He  put  his  eye  to  one  of  the  round  holes  
in  the  iron  and  saw
nothing but blackness. He exchanged eye for ear.

'Wait . . . '

The   voice   drifted   up   to   him   from   the   blackness   inside,   and  
 Henry   felt   his   interior
temperature  plummet  to  zero,  his  veins  and  arteries  freezing  into  
crystal  tubes  of  ice.  But  with
these  sensations  came  an  almost  unknown  feeling:  love.  His  eyes  
widened.  A  clownish  smile
spread  his  lips  in  a  large  nerveless  arc.  It  was  the  voice  from  
the  moon.  Now  It  was  down  in
the pumping-station . . .  down in the drains.

'Wait . . . watch . . . '

He   waited,   but   there   was   no   more:   only   the   steady   soporific 
  drone   of   the   pumping
machinery.   He   walked   back   down   to   where   Victor   stood   on   the 
  bank,   watching   him
cautiously. Henry ignored him and hollered for Belch. In a little while Belch 
came.

'Come on,' he said.

'What are we gonna do, Henry?' Belch asked.
'Wait. Watch.'

They  crept  back  toward  the  clearing  and  sat  down.  Henry  tried  to  
pull  his  underpants  away
from his aching balls, but it hurt too much.

'Henry, what — ' Belch began.
'Shhh!'

Belch  fell  obligingly  silent.  Henry  had  Camels  but  he  didn't  share  
them  out.  He  didn't  want

the  bitch  to  smell  cigarette  smoke  if  she  was  around.  He  could  have 
 explained,  but  there  was
no   need.   The   voice   had   only   spoken   two   words   to   him,   but  
 they  seemed   to   explain
everything. They played down here. Soon the others would come back. Why settle 
for just the
bitch when they could have all seven of the little shitepokes?

They  waited  and  watched.  Victor  and  Belch  seemed  to  have  gone  to  
sleep  with  their eyes
open.  It  was  not  a  long  wait,  but  there  was  time  for  Henry  to  
think  of  a  good  many  things.
How  he  had  found  the  switchblade  this  morning,  for  instance.  It  
wasn't  the  same  one  he'd  had
on the last day of school; he'd lost that one somewhere. This one looked a lot 
cooler.

It came in the mail.
Sort of.


He had stood on the porch, looking at their battered leaning RFD box, trying to 
grasp what
he was seeing. The box was decked with balloons. Two were tied to the metal 
hook where the
postman  sometimes  hung  packages;  others  were  tied  to  the  flag.  Red,  
yellow,  blue,  green.  It
was    as  if  some  weird  circus  had  crept  by  on  Witcham  Road  in  the  
dead  of  night,  leaving  this
sign.

As he approached the mailbox, he saw there were faces on the balloons  — the 
faces of the
kids who had deviled him all this summer, the kids who seemed to mock him at 
every turn.

He  had  stared  at  these  apparitions,  gape-mouthed,  and  then  the  
balloons  popped,  one  by
one.  That  had  been  good;  it  was  as  if  he  were  making  them pop  just 
 by  thinking  about  it,
killing them with his mind.

The  front  of  the  mailbox  suddenly  swung  down.  Henry  walked  toward  it 
 and  peered  in.
Although  the  mailman  didn't  get  this  far  out  until  the  middle  of  
the  afternoon,  he  felt  no
surprise  when  he  saw  a  flat  rectangular  package  inside.  He  pulled  it 
 out.  MR  HENRY  BOWERS,
RFD  #2,  DERRY,  MAINE,  the  address  read.  There  was  even  a  
return-address  of  sorts:  MR
ROBERT GRAY, DERRY, MAINE.

He  opened  the  package,  letting  the  brown  paper  drift  down  heedlessly  
by  his  feet.  There

was  a  white  box  inside.  He  opened  it.  Lying  on  a  bed  of  white  
cotton  had  been  the
switchknife. He took it into the house.

His  father  was  lying  on  his  pallet  in  the  bedroom  they  shared,  
surrounded  by  empty  beer

cans,   his   belly   bulging   over   the   top   of   his   yellow   
underpants.   Henry   knelt   beside   him,
listening  to  the  snort  and  flutter  of  his  father's  breathing,  
watching  his  father's  horsy  lips  purse
and pucker with each breath.

Henry  placed  the  business-end  of  the  switchknife  agains t  his  father's 
 scrawny  neck.  His
father  moved  a  little  and  then  settled  back  into  beery  sleep  again.  
Henry  kept  the  knife  like
that   for   almost   five   minutes,   his   eyes   distant   and   
thoughtful,   the   ball   of   his   left   thumb
caressing  the  silver  button  set  into  the  switchblade's  neck.  The  
voice  from  the  moon  spoke  to
him  —  it  whispered  like  the  spring  wind  which  is  warm  with  a  cold  
blade  buried  somewhere
in  its  middle,  it  buzzed  like  a  paper  nest  full  of  roused  hornets,  
it  huckstered  like  a  hoarse
politician.

Everything  the  voice  said  seemed  pretty  much  okey-dokey  to  Henry  and  
so  he  pushed  the
silver button. There was   a click  inside  the  knife  as  the  suicide-spring 
let go, and six inches of
steel  drove  through  Butch  Bowers's  neck.  It  went  in  as  easily  as  
the  tines  of  a  meat-fork into
the  breast  of  a  well-roasted  chicken.  The  tip  of  the  blade  popped  
out  on  the  other  side,
dripping.

Butch's  eyes  flew  open.  He  stared  at  the  ceiling.  His  mouth  dropped  
open.  Blood  ran  from
the  corners  of  it  and  down  his  cheeks  toward  the  lobes  of  his  
ears.  He  began  to  gurgle.  A
large  blood-bubble  formed  between  his  slack  lips  and  popped.  One  of  
his  hands  crept  to
Henry's  knee  and  squeezed  convulsively.  Henry  didn't  mind.  Presently  
the  hand  fell  away.
The gurgling noises stopped a moment later. Butch Bowers was dead.

Henry  pulled  the  knife  out,  wiped  it  on  the  dirty  sheet  that  
covered  his  father's  pallet,  and
pushed  the  blade  back  in  until  the  spring  clicked  again.  He  looked  
at  his  father  without  much
interest.  The  voice  had  told   him  about  the  day's  work  while  he  
knelt  beside  Butch  with  the
knife  against  Butch's  neck.  The  voice  had  explained  everything.  So  he 
 went  into  the  other
room to call Belch and Victor.

Now  here  they  were,  all  three,  and  although  his  balls  still  ached  
horribly, the knife made a
comforting  bulge  in  his  left  front  pants  pocket.  He  felt  that  the  
cutting  would  begin  soon.  The
others  would  come  back  down  to  resume  whatever  baby  game  they  had  
been  playing,  and
then  the  cutting  would  begin.  The  voice  from  the  moon  had  laid  it  
out  for  him  as  he  knelt  by
his father, and on his way into town he had been unable to take his eyes from 
that pale ghost-
disc  in  the  sky.  He  saw  that  there  was  indeed  a  man  in  the  moon  
—  a  grisly  glimmering


ghost-face  with  cratered  holes  for   eyes  and  a  glabrous  grin  that  
seemed  to  reach  halfway  up
Its cheekbones. It talked

(we float down here Henry we all float you'll float too)

all  the  way  to  town.  Kill  them  all,  Henry,   the  ghost-voice from the 
moon said, and Henry
could  dig  it;  Henry felt  he  could  second  that  emotion.  He  would  kill 
 them  all,  his  tormentors,
and  then  those  feelings   —  that  he  was  losing  his  grip,  that  he  
was  coming  inexorably  to  a
larger  world  he  would  not  be  able  to  dominate  as  he  had  dominated  
the  playyard  at  Derry
Elementary,  that  in  the  wider  world  the  fat-boy  and  the  nigger  and  
the  stuttering  freak  might
somehow grow larger while he somehow only grew older — would be gone.

He  would  kill  them  all,  and  the  voices  —  those  inside  and  the  one  
which  spoke  to  him
from the moon  —  would  leave  him  alone.  He  would  kill  them  and  then  
go  back  to  the  house
and  sit  on  the  back  porch  with  his  father's  souvenir  Jap  sword  
across  his  lap.  He  would  drink
one  of  his  father's  Rheingolds.  He  would  listen  to  the  radio,  too,  
but  no  baseball. Baseball was
strictly  Squaresville.  He  would  listen  to  rock  and  roll  instead.  
Although  Henry  didn't  know  it
(and  wouldn't  have  cared  if  he  did),  on  this  one  subject  he  and  
the  Losers  agreed:  rock  and
roll  was  pretty  much  okey-dokey.  We  got  chicken  in  the  barn,  whose  
barn,  what  barn,  my
barn.   Everything   would   be   good   then;   everything   would   be   the  
 ginchiest   then;   everything
would  be  okeyfine  then  and  anything  which  might  come  next  would  not  
matter.  The  voice
would take care of him  —  he  sensed  that.  If  you  took  care  of  It,  It  
would  take  care  of  you.
That was how things had always been in Derry.

But the kids had to be stopped, stopped soon, stopped today. The voice had told 
him so.

Henry  took  his  new  knife  out  of  his  pocket,  looked  at  it,  turned  
it  this  way  and  that,
admiring  the  way  the  sun  winked  and  slid  off  the  chrome  facing.  
Then  Belch  was  grabbing
his arm and hissing: 'Look that, Henry! Jeezly-old -crow! Look that!'

Henry  looked  and  felt  the  clear  light  of  understanding  burst  over  
him.  A  square section of
the  clearing  was  rising  as  if  by  magic,  revealing  a  growing  slice  
of  darkness  beneath.  For  just
a moment he felt a jolt of terror as it occurred to him that this might be the 
owner of the voice

.  .  .  for  surely  It  lived  somewhere  under  the  city. Then he heard the 
gritty squall of dirt in the
hinges and understood. They hadn't been able to see the treehouse because there 
was none.

'By  God,  we  was  standin  right  on  top  of  em,'  Victor  grunted,  and  
as  Ben's  head  and
shoulders  appeared  in  the  square  hatchway  in  the  center  of  the  
clearing,  he  made  as  if  to
charge forward. Henry grabbed him and held him back.

'Ain't  we  gonna  get  em,  Henry?'  Victor  asked  as  Ben  boosted  himself  
up.  Both  of  them
were puffing and blowing.

'We'll  get  em,'  Henry  said,  never  taking  his  eyes  from  the  hated  
fat-boy.  Another  ball-
kicker. I'll kick your balls so high up you can wear them for earrings, you fat 
fuck. Wait and
see if I don't. 'Don't worry.'

The fat-boy  was  helping  the  bitch  out  of  the  hole.  She  looked  around 
 doubtfully,  and  for  a
moment  Henry  believed  she  looked  right  at  him.  Then  her  eyes  passed  
on.  The  two  of  them
murmured  together  and  then  they  pushed  their  way  into  the  thick  
undergrowth  and  were
gone.

'Come  on,'  Henry  said,  when  the  sound  of  snapping branches and rustling 
leaves had faded

almost   to   inaudibility.   'We'll   follow   em.   But   keep   back   and   
keep   quiet.   I   want   em   all
together.'

The three of them crossed the clearing like soldiers on patrol, bent low, their 
eyes wide and
moving.  Belch  paused  to  look  down  into  the  clubhouse  and  shook  his  
head  in  admiring
wonder. 'Sittin right over their heads, I was,' he said.

Henry motioned him forward impatiently.


They  took  the  path,  because  it  was  quieter.  They  were  halfway  back  
to  Kansas  Street when
the  bitch  and  the  fat-boy, holding hands  (isn't  that  cute?   Henry 
thought in a kind of ecstasy),
emerged almost directly in front of them.

Luckily,  their  backs  were  to  Henry's  group,  and  neither  of  them  
looked  around.  Henry,
Victor,  and  Belch  froze,  then  drew  into  the  shadows  at  the  side  of  
the  path.  Soon  Ben  and
Beverly  were  just  two  shirts  seen  through  a  tangle  of  shrubs  and  
bushes.  The  three  of  them
began to pursue again . . . cautiously. Henry took the knife out again and

9

Henry Gets a Lift / 2.:30 A.M.

pressed the chrome button in the handle. The blade popped out. He looked at it 
dreamily in
the  moonlight.  He  liked  the  way  the  starlight  ran  along  the  blade.  
He  had  no  idea  exactly
what time it was. He was drifting in and out of reality now.

A  sound  impinged  on  his  consciousness  and  began  to  grow.  It  was  a  
car  engine.  It  drew
closer. Henry's eyes widened in the dark. He held the knife more tightly, 
waiting for the car to
pass by.

It  didn't.  It  drew  up  at  the  curb  beyond  the  seminary  hedge  and  
simply  stopped  there,
engine  idling.  Grimacing  (his  belly  was  stiffening  now;  it  had  gone  
board-hard, and the blood
seeping  sluggishly  between  his  fingers  had  the  consistency  of  sap  
just  before  you  took  the
taps  out  of  the  maples  in  late  March or early April), he got on his 
knees and pushed aside the
stiff   hedge-branches.   He   could   see   headlights   and   the   shape   
of   a   car.   Cops?   His   hand
squeezed the knife and relaxed, squeezed and relaxed, squeezed and relaxed.

I sent you a ride, Henry,  the voice whispered.  Sort of a taxi, if you can dig 
that. After all,
we have to get you over there to the Town House pretty soon. The night's 
getting old.

The  voice  uttered  one  thin  bonelike  chuckle  and  fell  silent.  Now  the 
 only  sounds  were  the
crickets  and  the  steady  rumble  of  the  idling  car.   Sounds  like  
cherry-bomb  mufflers,  Henry
thought distractedly.

He  got  awkwardly  to  his  feet  and  worked  his  way  back  to  the  
seminary  walk.  He  peeked
around at the car. Not a fuzzmobile: no bubbles on the roof, and  the shape was 
all wrong. The
shape was . . . old.

Henry heard that giggle again . . . or perhaps it was only the wind.

He  emerged  from  the  shadow  of  the  hedge,  crawled  under  the  chain,  
got  to  his  feet  again,
and   began   to   walk   toward   the   idling   car,  which  existed  in  a  
black-and-white  Polaroid-
snapshot  world  of  bright  moonlight  and  impenetrable  shadow.  Henry  was  
a  mess:  his  shirt
was black with blood, and it had soaked through his jeans almost to the knees. 
His face was a
white blotch under an institutional crewcut.

He  reached  the  intersection  of  the  seminary  path  and  the  sidewalk  
and  peered  at  the  car,
trying  to  make  sense  out  of  the  hulk  behind  the  wheel.  But  it  was  
the  car  he  recognized  first

—  it  was  the  one  his  father  always  swore  he  would  own someday, a 
1958 Plymouth Fury. It
was  red  and  white  and  Henry  knew  (hadn't  his  father  told  him  often  
enough?)  that  the  engine
rumbling  under  the  hood  was  a  V-8  327.  Available  horsepower  of  255,  
able  to  hit  seventy
from  the  git-go  in  just  about  nine  seconds,  gobbling  hi-test  through  
its  four-barrel carb.   I'm
gonna get that car and then when I die they can bury me in it,  Butch had been 
fond of saying

.  .  .  except,  of  course,  he  had  never  gotten  the  car  and  the  
state  had  buried  him  after  Henry
had been taken away, raving and screaming of monsters, to the funny farm.

If  that's  him  inside  I  don't  think  I  can  take  it,  Henry thought, 
squeezing down on the knife,
swaying drunkenly back and forth, looking at the shape behind the wheel.


Then  the  passenger  door  of  the  Fury  swung  open,  the  dome-light came 
on, and the driver
turned  to  look  at  him.  It  was  Belch  Huggins.  His  face  was  a  
hanging  ruin.  One  of  his  eyes
was  gone,  and  a  rotted  hole  in  one  parchment  cheek  revealed  
blackened  teeth.  Perched  on
Belch's head  was the New York Yankees baseball cap he had been wearing the day 
he died. It
was turned around backward. Gray-green mold oozed along the bill.

'Belch!'  Henry  cried,  and  agony  ripped  its  way  up  from  his  belly,  
making  him  cry  out
again, wordlessly.

Belch's  dead  lips  stretched  in  a  grin,  splitting  open  in  whitish-gray 
 bloodless  folds.  He  held
one twisted hand out toward the open door in invitation.

Henry  hesitated,  then  shuffled  around  the  Fury's  grille,  allowing  one  
hand  to  touch  the  V-
shaped  emblem  there,  just  as  he  had  always  touched  it  when  his  
father  took  him  into  the
Bangor  showroom  when  he  was  a  kid  to  look  at  this  same  car.  As  he 
 reached  the  passenger
side,  grayness  overwhelmed  him  in  a  soft  wave  and  he  had  to  grab  
the  open  door  to  keep  his
feet.  He  stood  there,  head  down,  breathing  in  snuffling  gasps.  At  
last  the  world  came  back  —
partway, anyhow  —  and  he  was  able  to  work  his  way  around  the  door  
and  fall  into  the  seat.
Pain  skewered  his  guts  again,  and  fresh  blood  squirted  out  into  his  
hand.  It  felt  like  warm
jelly. He put his head back and gritted his teeth, the cords on his neck 
standing out. At last the
pain began to subside a little.

The  door  swung  shut  by  itself.  The  domelight  went  out.  Henry  saw  
one  of  Belch's  rotted
hands  close  over  the  transmission  lever  and  drop  it  into  drive.  The  
bunched  white  knots  of
Belch's knuckles glimmered through the decaying flesh of his fingers.

The Fury began to move down Kansas Street toward Up-Mile Hill.

'How  you  doin,  Belch?'  Henry  heard  himself say. It was stupid, of course  
— Belch couldn't
be here, dead people couldn't drive cars — but it was all he could think of.

Belch  didn't  reply.  His  one  sunken  eye  stared  at  the  road.  His  
teeth  glared  sickly  at  Henry
through  the  hole  in  his  cheek.  Henry  became  vaguely  aware  that  ole  
Belch  smelled  pretty
ripe.  Ole  Belch  smelled,  in  fact,  like  a  bushel-basket  of  tomatoes  
that  had  gone  bad  and
watery.

The  glove  compartment  flopped  open,  banging  Henry's  knees,  and  in  the 
 light  of  the  small

bulb  inside  he  saw  a  bottle  of  Texas  Driver,  half-full.  He  took  it  
out,  opened  it,  and  had
himself a good shot. It went down like cool silk and hit his stomach like an 
explosion of lava.
He  shuddered  all  over,  moaning  and  then  began  to  feel  a  little  
better,  a  little more connected
to the world.

'Thanks,' he said.

Belch's  head  turned  toward  him.  Henry  could  hear  the  tendons  in  
Belch's  neck'  the  sound
was  like  the  scream  of  rusty  screen-door  hinges.  Belch  regarded  him  
for  a  moment  with  a
dead  one-eyed  stare,  and  Henry  realized  for  the  first  time  that  most 
 of  Belch's  nose  was  gone.
It looked like something had been at the ole Belcher's nose. Dog, maybe. Or 
maybe rats. Rats
seemed  more  likely.  The  tunnels  they  had  chased  the  little  kids  into 
 that  day  had  been  full of
rats.

Moving  just  as  slowly,  Belch's  head  turned  toward  the  road  again.  
Henry  was  glad.  Ole
Belch  staring  at  him  that  way,  well,  Henry  hadn't  been  able  to  dig  
it  too  much.  There  had
been something in Belch's single sunken eye. Reproach? Anger? What?

There is a dead boy behind the wheel of this car.

Henry  looked  down  at  his  arm  and  saw  that  huge  goosebumps  had  
formed  there.  He
quickly  had  another  snort  from  the  bottle.  This  one  hit  a  little  
easier  and  spread  its  warmth
farther.

The  Plymouth  rolled  down  Up-Mile  Hill  and  made  its  way  around  the  
counter-clockwise
traffic  circle  .  .  .  except  at  this  time  of  night  there  was  no  
traffic;  all  the  traffic-lights  had
changed   to   yellow   bunkers   splashing   the   empty   streets   and   
closed   buildings   with   steady


pulses  of  light.  It  was  so  quiet  that  Henry  could  hear  the  relays  
clicking  inside  each  light  .  .  .
or was that his imagination?

'Never  meant  to  leave  you  behind  that  day,  Belcher,'  Henry  said.  'I  
mean,  if  that was, you
know, on your mind.'

That  scream  of  dried  tendons  again.  Belch  looking  at  him  again  with  
his  one  sunken  eye.
And  his  lips  stretched  in  a  terrible  grin  that  revealed  gray-black  
gums  which  were  growing
their own garden of mold.  What sort of a grin is that?  Henry asked himself as 
the car purred
silkily  up  Main  Street,  past  Freese's  on  the  one  side,  Nan's  
Luncheonette  and  the  Aladdin
Theater on the other.  Is  it  a  forgiving  grin?  An  old -pals  grin?  Or  
is  it  the  kind  of  grin  that
says I'm going to get you, Henry, I'm going to get you for running out on me 
and Vie? What
kind of grin?

'You  have  to  understand  how  it  was,'  Henry  said,  and  then  stopped.  
How   had  it been? It
was  all  confused  in  his  mind,  the  pieces  jumbled  up  like  the  pieces 
 of  a  jigsaw  puzzle  that  had
just  been  dumped  out  on one of the shitty cardtables in the rec room at 
Jumper Hill. How  had
it  been,  exactly?  They  had  followed  the  fatboy  and  the  bitch  back  
to  Kansas  Street  and  had
waited  back  in  the  bushes,  watching  them  climb  up  the  embankment  to  
the  top.  If  they  had
disappeared  from  view,  he  and  Victor  and  Belch  would  have  dropped  
the  stalking  game  and
simply gone after them; two of them were better than none at all, and the rest 
would be along
in time.

But   they   hadn't   disappeared.   They   had   simply   leaned   against   
the   fence,  talking   and
watching  the  street.  Every  now  and  then  they  would  check  down  the  
slope  into  the  Barrens,
but Henry kept his two troops well out of sight.

The  sky,  Henry  remembered,  had  become  overcast,  clouds  moving  in  from 
 the  east,  the  air
thickening. There would be rain that afternoon.

What had happened next? What —

A  bony,  leathery  hand  closed  over  his  forearm  and  Henry  screamed.  He 
 had  been  drifting
away  again  into  that  cottony  grayness,  but  Belch's  dreadful  touch  and 
 the  dagger  of  pain  in
his  stomach  from  the  scream  brought  him  back.  He  looked  around  and  
Belch's  face  was  less
than  two  inches  from  Henry's;  he  gasped  in  breath  and  wished  he  
hadn't.  The  ole  Belcher
really  had  gone  to  seed.  Henry  was  again  reminded  of  tomatoes  going  
quietly  putrescent  in
some shadowy shed comer. His stomach roiled.

He  remembered  the  end  suddenly  —  the  end  for  Belch  and  Vie,  anyway. 
 How  something
had  come  out  of  the  darkness  as  they  stood  in  a  shaft  with  a  
sewer-grating  at  the  top,
wondering  which  way  to  go next.  Something  .  .  .   Henry  hadn't  been  
able  to  tell  what.  Until
Victor  shrieked,   'Frankenstein!  It's  Frankenstein!'  And  so  it  was,  it 
 was  the  Frankenstein
monster,  with  bolts  coming  out  of  its  neck  and  a  deep  stitched  scar 
 across  its  forehead,
lurching along in shoes like a child's blocks.

'Frankensteinl'  Vie had screamed,   'Fr  —  And  then  Vic's  head  was  gone, 
 Vic's  head  was
flying  across  the  shaftway  to  strike  the  stonework  of  the  far  side  
with  a  sour  sticky  thud.  The
monster's  watery  yellow  eyes  had  fallen  on  Henry,  and  Henry  had  
frozen.  His  bladder  let  go
and he felt warmth flood down his legs.

The creature lurched toward him, and Belch . . . Belch had . . .

'Listen, I know I ran,' Henry said. 'I shouldn't have done that. But . . . but 
. . . '
Belch only stared.

'I  got  lost,'  Henry  whispered,  as  if  to  tell  the  ole  Belcher  that  
he  had  paid,  too.  It  sounded
weak, like saying  Yeah, I know you got killed, Belch, but I got one  fuck of a 
splinter under my
thumbnail. But it had been bad . .  . really bad. He had wandered around in a 
world of stinking
darkness  for  hours,  and  finally,  he  remembered,  he  had  started  to  
scream.  At  some  point  he
had fallen  —  a  long,  dizzying  fall,  in  which  he  had  time  to  think  
Oh  good  in  a  minute  I'll  be
dead, I'll  be  out  of  this   —  and  then  he  had  been  in  fast-running  
water.  Under  the  Canal,  he


supposed.  He  had  come  out  into  fading  sunlight,  had  flailed  his  way  
toward  the  bank,  and  had
finally  climbed  out  of  the  Kenduskeag  less  than  fifty  yards  from  the 
 place  where  Adrian
Mellon  would  drown  twenty-six  years  later.  He  slipped,  fell,  bashed  
his  head,  blacked  out.
When he woke up it was after dark. He had somehow found his way out to Route 2 
and had
hooked a ride to the home place. And there the cops had been waiting for him.

But  that  was  then  and  this  was  now.  Belch  had  stepped  in  front  of  
Frankenstein's monster
and it had peeled the left side of his face down to the skull  — so much Henry 
had seen before
fleeing. But now Belch was back, and Belch was pointing at something.

Henry  saw  that  they  had  pulled  up  in  front  of  the  Derry  Town  
House,  and  suddenly he

understood  perfectly.  The  Town  House  was  the  only  real  hotel  left  in 
 Derry.  Back  in  '58  there
had  also  been  the  Eastern  Star  at  the  end  of  Exchange  Street,  and  
the  Traveller's  Rest  on
Torrault  Street.  Both  had  disappeared  during  urban  renewal  (Henry  knew 
 all  about  this;  he
had  read  the  Derry  News  faithfully  every  day  in  Juniper  Hill).  Only  
the  Town  House  was  left
and a bunch of ticky-tacky little motels out by the Interstate.

That's where they'll be, he thought. Right in there. All of them that are left. 
Asleep in their
beds, with visions of sugarplums — or sewers, maybe — dancing in their heads. 
And I'll get
them. One by one, I'll get them.

He  took  the  bottle  of  Texas  Driver  out  again  and  bit  off  a  snort.  
He  could  feel  fresh  blood
trickling  into  his  lap,  and  the  seat  was  tacky  beneath  him,  but  the 
 wine  made  it  better;  the
wine  seemed  to  make  it  not  matter.  He  could  have  done  with  some  
good  bourbon,  but  the
Driver was better than nothing.

'Look,' he said to Belch, 'I'm sorry I ran. I don't know why I ran. Please . . 
. don't be mad.'

Belch  spoke  for  the  first  and  only  time,  but  the  voice  wasn't  his  
voice.  The  voice  that  came
from  Belch's  rotting  mouth was  deep  and  powerful,  terrifying.  Henry  
whimpered  at  the  sound
of  it.  It  was  the  voice  from  the  moon,  the  voice  of  the  clown,  
the  voice  he  had  heard  in  his
dreams of drains and sewers where water rushed on and on.

'Just shut up and get them,' the voice said.

'Sure,' Henry whined. 'Sure, okay, I want to, no problem — '

He  put  the  bottle  back  in  the  glove  compartment.  Its  neck  chattered  
briefly  like  teeth.  And
he  saw  a  paper  where  the  bottle  had  been.  He  took  it  out  and  
unfolded  it,  leaving  bloody
fingerprints on the corners. Embossed across the top was this logo, in bright 
scarlet:

Below this, carefully printed in capital letters:

BILL DENBROUGH               311

BEN HANSCOM                  404

EDDIE KASPBRAK               609

BEVERLY MARSH                518

RICHIE TOZIER                217

Their room numbers. That was good. That saved time. 'Thanks, Be — '

But Belch was gone. The driver's seat was empty. There was only the New York 
Yankees
baseball  cap  lying  there,  mold  crusted  on  its  bill.  And  some  slimy  
stuff  on  the  knob  of  the
gearshift.


Henry  stared,  his  heart  beating  painfully  in  his  throat  .  .  .  and  
then  he  seemed  to  hear
something  move  and  shift  in  the  back  seat.  He  got  out  quickly,  
opening  the  door  and  almost
falling  to  the  pavement  in  his  haste.  He  gave  the  Fury,  which  still 
 burbled  softly  through  its
dual  cherry-bomb  mufflers  (cherry-bombs  had  been  outlawed  in  the  State 
 of  Maine  in  1962),
a wide berth.

It  was  hard  to  walk;  each  step  pulled  and  tore  at  his  belly.  But  
he  gained  the  sidewalk  and
stood  there,  looking  at  the  eight-floor  brick  building  which,  along  
with  the  library  and  the
Aladdin  Theater  and  the  seminary,  was  one  of  the  few  he  remembered  
clearly  from  the  old
days.  Most  of  the  lights  on  the  upper  floors  were  out  now,  but  the 
 frosted-glass globes which
flanked   the   main   doorway   blazed   softly   in   the   darkness,   
haloed   with   moisture   from   the
lingering groundfog.

Henry  made  his  laborious  way  toward  and  between  them,  shouldering  
open  one  of  the
doors.

The  lobby  was  wee-hours  silent.  There  was  a  faded  Turkish  rug  on  
the  floor. The ceiling

was  a  huge  mural,  executed  in  rectangular  panels,  which  showed  scenes 
 from  Derry's  logging
days. There were overstuffed sofas and wing chairs and a great fireplace which 
was now dead
and  silent,  a  birch  log  thrown  across  the  andirons   —  a  real log,  
no  gas;  the  fireplace  in  the
Town  House  was  not  just  a  piece  of  lobby  stage  dressing.  Plants  
spilled  out  of  low  pots.  The
glass  double  doors  leading  to  the  bar  and  the  restaurant  were  
closed.  From  some  inner  office,
Henry could hear the gabble of a TV, turned low.

He  lurched  across  the  lobby,  his  pants  and  shirt  streaked  with  
blood.  Blood  was  grimed
into  the  folds  of  his  hands;  it  ran  down  his  cheeks  and  slashed  
his  forehead  like  warpaint.  His
eyes  bulged  from  their  sockets.  Anyone  in  the  lobby  who  had  seen  
him  would  have  run,
screaming, in terror. But there was no one.

The  elevator  doors  opened  as  soon  as  he  pushed  the  UP  button. He 
looked at the paper in
his  hand,  then  at  the  floor  buttons.  After  a  moment  of  deliberation, 
 he  pushed  6  and  the  doors
closed. There was a faint hum of machinery as the elevator began to rise.

Might as well start at the top and work my way down.

He  slumped  against  the  rear  wall  of  the  car,  eyes  half-closed.  The  
hum  of  the  elevator  was
soothing.  Like  the  hum  of  the  machinery  in  the  pumping-stations of the 
drainage system. That
day:  it  kept  coming  back  to  him.  How  everything  seemed  almost  
prearranged,  as  if  all  of
them  were  just  playing  parts.  How  Vie  and  the  ole  Belcher  had  
seemed  .  .  .  well,  almost
drugged. He remembered —

The  car  came  to  a  stop,  jolting  him  and  sending  another  wave  of  
griping  pain  into  his
stomach.  The  doors  slid  open.  Henry  stepped  out  into  the  silent  
hallway  (more  plants  here,
hanging  ones,  spiderplants,  he  didn't  want  to  touch  any  of  them, not 
those oozy green runners,
they  reminded  him  too  much  of  the  things  that  had  been  hanging  down 
 there  in  the  dark).  He
rechecked  the  paper.  Kaspbrak  was  in  609.  Henry  started  down  that  
way,  running  one  hand
along  the  wall  for  support,  leaving  a  faint  bloody  track  on  the  
wallpaper  as  he  went  (ah,  but
he  stepped  away  whenever  he  came  close  to  one  of  the  hanging  
spiderplants;  he  wanted  no
truck with those). His breathing was harsh and dry.

Here  it  was.  Henry  pulled  the  switchblade  from  his  pocket,  swashed  
his  dry  lips  with  his
tongue, and knocked on the door. Nothing. He knocked again, louder this time.

'Whozit?'  Sleepy.  Good.  He'd  be  in  his  'jammies,  only  half-awake.  And 
 when  he  opened

the  door,  Henry  would  drive  the  switchblade  directly  into  the  hollow  
at  the  base  of  his  neck,
the vulnerable hollow just below the adam's apple.

'Bellboy,  sir,'  Henry  said.  'Message  from  your  wife.'  Did  Kaspbrak  
have  a  wife?  Maybe
that  had  been  a  stupid  thing  to  say.  He  waited,  coldly  alert.  He  
heard  footsteps  — the shuffle
of slippers.


'From Myra?' He sounded alarmed. Good. He would be more alarmed in a few 
seconds. A
pulse beat steadily in Henry's right temple.

'I guess so, sir. There's no name. It just says your wife.'

There  was  a  pause,  then  a  metallic  rattle  as  Kaspbrak  fumbled  with  
the  chain.  Grinning,
Henry  pushed  the  button  on  the  switchblade's  handle.  Click.  He  held  
the  blade  up  by  his
cheek,  ready.  He  heard  the  thumb-bolt  turn.  In  just  a  moment  he  
would  plunge  the  blade  into
the skinny little creep's throat. He waited. The door opened and Eddie

10

The Losers All Together / 1:20 P.M.

saw Stan and Richie just coming out of the Costello Avenue Market, each of them 
eating a
Rocket on a push-up stick. 'Hey!' he shouted. 'Hey, wait up!'

They  turned  around  and  Stan  waved.  Eddie  ran  to  join  them  as  
quickly  as  he  could,  which

was not, in truth, very quickly. One arm was immured in a plaster-of-Paris cast 
and he had his
Parcheesi board under the other.

'Whatchoo  say,  Eddie?  Whatchoo  say,  boy?'  Richie  asked  in  his  grandly 
 rolling  Southern

Gentleman  Voice  (the  one  that  sounded  more  like  Foghorn  Leghorn  in  
the  Warner  Brothers
cartoons than anything else). 'Ah say . . . Ah say . . . the boy's got a broken 
ahm! Lookit that,
Stan,  the  boy's  got  a  broken  ahm!  Ah  say  .  .  .  be  a  good  spote  
and  carreh  the  boy's
Pawcheeseh bo-wud for him!'

'I can carry it,' Eddie said, a little out of breath. 'How about a lick on your 
Rocket?'

'Your  mom  wouldn't  approve,  Eddie,'  Richie  said  sadly.  He  began  to 
eat faster. He had just
gotten  to  the  chocolate  stuff  in  the  middle,  his  favorite  part.  
'Germs,  boy! Ah say . . . Ah say
you kin get germs eatin after someone else!'

'I'll chance it,' Eddie said.

Reluctantly,  Richie  held  his  Rocket  up  to  Eddie's  mouth  .  .  .  and  
snatched  it  away  quickly
as soon as Eddie had gotten in a couple of moderately serious licks.

'You can have the rest of mine, if you want,' Stan said. 'I'm still full from 
lunch.'

'Jews  don't  eat  much,'  Richie  instructed.  'It's  part  of  their  
religion.'  The  three  of  them  were
walking  along  companionably  enough  now,  headed  up  toward Kansas  Street  
and  the  Barrens.
Derry  seemed  lost  in  a  deep  hazy  afternoon  doze.  The  blinds  of  most 
 of  the  houses  they
passed  were  pulled  down.  Toys  stood  abandoned on lawns, as if their 
owners had been hastily
called in from play or put down for naps. Thunder rumbled thickly in the west.

'Is it?' Eddie asked Stan.

'No,  Richie's  just  pulling  your  leg,'  Stan  said.  'Jews  eat  as  much  
as  normal  people.'  He
pointed at Richie. 'Like him.'

'You  know,  you're  pretty  fucking  mean  to  Stan,'  Eddie  told  Richie.  
'How  would  you  like
somebody to say all that made-up shit about you, just because you're a 
Catholic?'

'Oh,  Catholics  do  plenty,'  Richie  said.  'My  dad told me once that Hitler 
was a Catholic, and
Hitler killed billions of Jews. Right, Stan?'

'Yeah, I guess so,' Stan said. He looked embarrassed.

'My mom was  furious  when  my  dad  told  me  that,'  Richie  went  on.  A  
little  reminiscent  grin
had  surfaced   on  his  face.'  Absolutely  fyoo-rious.  Us  Catholics  also  
had  the  Inquisition,  that
was  the  little  dealie  with  the  rack  and  the  thumbscrews  and  all  
that  stuff.  I  figure  all  religions
are pretty weird.'


'Me  too,'  Stan  said  quietly.  'We're  not  Orthodox,  or  anything  like  
that.  I  mean,  we  eat  ham
and  bacon.  I  hardly  even  know  what  being  a  Jew  is.  I  was  born  in  
Derry,  and  sometimes  we
go up to synagogue in Bangor for stuff like Yom Kippur, but — ' He shrugged.

'Ham? Bacon?' Eddie was mystified. He and his mom were Methodists.

'Orthodox Jews don't eat stuff like that,' Stan said. 'It says something in the 
Torah about not
eating  anything  that  creeps  through  the  mud  or  walks  on  the  bottom  
of  the  ocean.  I  don't
know  exactly  how  it  goes.  But  pigs  are  supposed  to  be  out,  also  
lobster.  But  my  folks  eat
them. I do too.'

'That's  weird,'  Eddie  said,  and  burst  out  laughing.  'I  never  heard  
of  a  religion  that  told  you

what you could eat. Next thing, they'll be telling you what kind of gas you can 
buy.'

'Kosher  gas,'  Stan  said,  and  laughed  by  himself.  Neither  Richie  nor  
Eddie  understood  what
he was laughing about.

'You  gotta  admit,  Stanny,  it   is  pretty  weird,'  Richie  said.  'I  
mean,  not  being  able  to  eat  a
sausage just because you happen to be Jewish.'

'Yeah?' Stan said. 'You eat meat on Fridays?'

'    'Jeez, no!' Richie said, shocked. 'You can't eat meat on Friday, because  
— ' He began to
grin a little. 'Oh, okay, I see what you mean.'

'Do  Catholics  really  go  to  hell  if  they  eat  meat  on  Fridays?'  Eddie 
 asked,  fascinated,  totally
unaware  that,  until  two  generations  before,  his  own  people  had  been  
devout  Polish  Catholics
who  would  no  more  have  eaten  meat  on  Friday  than  they  would  have  
gone  outside  with  no
clothes on.

'Well,  I'll  tell  you  what,  Eddie,'  Richie  said.  'I  don't  really  
think  God  would  send  me  down

to  the  Hot  Place  just  for  forgetting  and  having  a  baloney  sandwich  
for  lunch  on  a  Friday,  but
why take a chance? Right?'

'I  guess  not,'  Eddie  said.  'But  it  seems  so  — '  So stupid,  he was go 
ing to say, and then he
remembered  a  story  Mrs  Portleigh  had  told  the  Sunday-school class  when 
 he  was  just  a  little
kid  —  a  first  grader  in  Little  Worshippers.  According  to  Mrs  
Portleigh,  a  bad  boy  had  once
stolen  some  of  the  communion  bread  when  the  tray was  passed  and  put  
it  in  his  pocket.  He
took it home and threw it into the toilet bowl just to see what would happen. 
At once  — or so
Mrs  Portleigh  reported  to  her  rapt  Little  Worshippers  —  the  water  in 
 the  toilet  bowl  had
turned  a  bright  red.  It  was  the  Blood of Christ, she said, and it had 
appeared to that little boy
because he had done a very bad act called a BLASPHEMY. It had appeared to warn 
him that,
by throwing the flesh of Jesus into the toilet, he had put his immortal soul in 
danger of Hell.

Up  until  then,  Eddie  had  rather  enjoyed  the  act  of  communion,  which  
he  had  only  been
allowed  to  take  since  the  previous  year.  The  Methodists  used  Welch's  
grape  juice  instead  of
wine,  and  the  Body  of  Christ  was  represented  by  cut-up  cubes  of  
fresh,  springy  Wonder
Bread.  He  liked  the  idea  of  taking  in  food  and  drink  as  a  
religious  rite.  But  following  Mrs
Portleigh's  story,  his  awe  of  the  ritual  darkened  into  something  more 
 potent,  something  rather
dreadful.  Simply  reaching  for  the  cubes  of  bread  became  an  act  which 
required courage, and
he always feared an electrical shock . . . or worse, that the bread would 
suddenly change color
in  his  hand,  become  a  blood-clot,  and  a  disembodied  Voice  would  
begin  to  thunder  in  the
church: Not  worthy!  Not  worthy!  Damned  to  Hell! Damned to Hell!  Often, 
after he had taken
communion,  his  throat  would  close  up,  his  breath  would  begin  to  
wheeze  in  and  out,  and  he
would  wait  with  panicky  impatience  for  the  benediction  to  be  over  so 
 he  could  hurry  into  the
vestibule and use his aspirator.

You  don't  want  to  be  so  silly,   he  told  himself  as  he  grew  older.  
That  was  nothing  but  a
story, and Mrs Portleigh sure wasn't any saint — Mamma said she was divorced 
down in
Kittery  and  that  she  plays  Bingo  at  Saint  Mary's  in  Bangor,  and  
that  real Christians don't
gamble, real Christians leave gambling for pagans and Catholics.


All  that  made  perfect  sense,  but  it  didn't  relieve  his  mind.  The  
story  of  the  communion
bread  that  turned  the  water  in  the  toilet  bowl  to  blood  worried  at  
him,  gnawed  at  him,  even
caused  him  to  lose  sleep.  It  came  to  him  one  night  that  the  way  
to  get  this  behind  him  once
and  for  all  would  be  to  take  a  piece  of  the  bread  himself,  toss  
it  in  the  toilet,  and  see  what
happened.

But  such  an  experiment  was  far  beyond  his  courage;  his  rational  mind 
 could  not  stand
against   that   sinister   image   of   the   blood   spreading   its   cloud  
 of   accusation   and   potential
damnation  in  the  water,  it  could  not  stand  against  that  talismanic  
magical  incantation:  This  is
my body, take, eat; this is my blood, shed for you and for many.

No, he had never made the experiment.

'I  guess  all  religions  are  weird,'  Eddie  said  now.  But  powerful,  his 
 mind  added,  almost
magical  .  .  .  or  was  that  BLASPHEMY?  He  began  to  think  about  the  
thing  they  had  seen  on
Neibolt  Street,  and  for  the  first  time  he  saw  a  crazy  parallel  —  
the  Werewolf  had,  after  all,
come out of the toilet.

'Boy,  I  guess  everybody's  asleep,'  Richie  said,  tossing  his  empty  
Rocket-tube  nonchalantly
into the gutter. 'You ever see it so quiet? What, did everybody go to Bar 
Harbor for the day?'

'H-H-H-Hey   you   guh-guh-guys!'  Bill  Denbrough  shouted  from  behind  
them.  'Wuh-Wuh-
hait up!'

Eddie  turned,  delighted  as  always  to  hear  Big  Bill's  voice.  He  was  
wheeling  Silver  around

the   corner   of   Costello  Avenue,  outdistancing  Mike,  although  Mike's  
Schwinn  was  almost
brand-new.

'Hi-yo  Silver,  AWAYYYY!'   Bill  yelled.  He  rolled  up  to  them  doing  
perhaps  twenty  miles  an

hour,  the  playing  cards  clothespinned  to  the  fender-struts  roaring.  
Then  he  back-pedalled,
locked the brakes, and produced an admirably long skid -mark.

'Stuttering Bill!' Richie said. 'Howaya, boy? M say . . . Ah say . . . how aw 
you, boy?'

'I'm  o-o-okay,'  Bill  said.  'Seen  Ben  or  Buh-Buh-heverly?' is Mike rode 
up and joined them.

Sweat stood out on his face in little drops. 'How fast does that bike go, 
anyway?'
Bill laughed. 'I d-d-don't nun-know, e-exactly. Pretty f-f-fast.'

'I  haven't  seen  them,'  Richie  said.  'They're  probably  down  there,  
hanging  out.  Singing  two-

part  harmony.  "Sh-boom,  sh-boom  .  .  .  yada-da-da-da-da-da  .  .  .  you  
look  like  a  dream,
shweetheart.'"

Stan Uris made throwing-up noises.

'He's just jealous,' Richie said to Mike. 'Jews can't sing.'
'Buh-buh-buh — '

'"Beep-beep, Richie,"' Richie said for him, and they all laughed.

They  started  toward  the  Barrens  again,  Mike  and  Bill  pushing  their  
bikes.  Conversation
was  brisk  at  first,  but  then  it  lagged.  Looking  at  Bill,  Eddie  saw  
an  uneasy  look  on  his  face,
and  he  thought  that  maybe  the  quiet was  getting  to  him,  too.  He  
knew  Richie  had  meant  it  as
a joke, but it really  did seem that everyone in Derry had gone to Bar Harbor 
for the day . . . to
somewhere.  Not a car moved on the street; there wasn't a single old lady 
pushing a carrier full
of groceries back to her house or apartment.

'Sure is quiet, isn't it?' Eddie ventured, but Bill only nodded.

They  crossed  to  the  Barrens  side  of  Kansas  Street,  and  then  they  
saw  Ben  and  Beverly,
running  toward  them,  shouting.  Eddie  was  shocked  by  Beverly's  
appearance;  she  was  usually
so neat and clean, her hair always washed and tied back in a pony-tail. Now she 
was streaked
with  what  looked  like  every  kind  of  gluck  in  the  universe.  Her  eyes 
 were  wide  and  wild.
There was a scratch on one cheek. Her jeans were caked with crap and her blouse 
was torn.

Ben fell behind her, puffing, his stomach wobbling.

'Can't  go  down  in  the  Barrens,'  Beverly  was  panting.  'The  boys  .  .  
.  Henry  .  .  .  Victor  .  .  .
they're down there somewhere . . . the knife . . . he has a knife . . . '


'Sluh-slow  down,'  Bill  said,  taking  charge  at  once  in  that  
effortless,  almost  unconscious
way  of  his.  He  glanced  at  Ben  as  he  ran  up,  his  cheeks  flushed  
bright,  his  considerable  chest
heaving.

'She says Henry's gone crazy, Big Bill,' Ben said.

'Shit, you mean he used to be sane?' Richie asked, and spat between his teeth.

'Sh-Shut  uh-up, Ruh-Richie,'  Bill  said,  and  then  looked  back  at  
Beverly.  'Teh-Tell,' he said.
Eddie's  hand  crept  into  his  pocket  and  touched  his  aspirator. He 
didn't know what all this was,
but he already knew it wasn't good.

Forcing  herself  to  speak  as  calmly  as  possible,  Beverly  managed  to  
get  out  an  edited

version  of  the  story —  a  version  that  began  with  Henry,  Victor,  and  
Belch  catching  up  to  her
on the street. She didn't tell them about her father — she was desperately 
ashamed of that.

When  she  was  finished  Bill  stood  silent  for  a  moment,  hands  in  his  
pockets,  chin  down,
Silver's  handlebars  leaning  against  his  chest.  The  others  waited,  
throwing frequent  glances  at
the  railing  that  ran  along  the  edge  of  the  dropoff.  Bill  thought  
for  a  long  time,  and  no  one
interrupted  him.  Eddie  became  aware,  suddenly  and  effortlessly,  that  
this  might  be  the  final
act. That was how the day's silence felt, wasn't  it? The feeling that the 
whole town had up and
left, leaving only the deserted husks of buildings behind.

Richie    was    thinking    about    the    picture    in    George's    album 
   that    had    suddenly
come to life.

Beverly was thinking about her father, how pale his eyes had been.
Mike was thinking about the bird.

Ben was thinking about the mummy, and a smell like dead cinnamon.

Stan    Uris    was    thinking    of    bluejeans,    black    and    
dripping,    and    hands    as    white
as wrinkled paper, also dripping.

'Cuh-Cuh-Come oh-oh-on,' Bill said at last. 'W -We're going d-d-down.'

'Bill  —  '  Ben  said.  His  face  was  troubled.  'Beverly  said  Henry  was  
really  crazy.  That he
meant to kill — '

'Ih-It's  nuh-not  theirs,'  Bill  said,  gesturing  at  the  green  
dagger-shaped  slash  of  the  Barrens
to  their  right  and  below  them —  the underbrush, the choked groves of 
trees, the bamboo, the
glint  of  water.  'Ih-Ih-It's  not  their  pruh-pruh-hopperty,'  He  looked  
around  at  them,  his  face
grim.   'I'm   t-t-tired  of  b-being  scuh-schuh-hared  by  them.  We  
b-b-beat  them  in  the  ruh-
rockfight, and if we h-h-have to beat them a-a-again, we'll duh-duh-do it.'

'But Bill,' Eddie said, 'what if it's not just them?

Bill  turned  to  Eddie,  and  with  real  shock  Eddie  saw  how  tired  and  
drawn  Bill's  face  was  -
there  was  something  frightening  about  that  face,  but  it  wasn't  until  
much,  much  later,  as  an
adult  drifting  toward  sleep  after  the  meeting  at  the  library,  that  
he  understood  what  that
frightening  thing  was:  it  was  the  face  of  a  boy  driven  close  to  
the  brink  of  madness,  a  boy
who  was  perhaps  ultimately  no  more  sane  or  in  control  of  his  own  
decisions  than  Henry  was.
Yet  the  essential  Bill  was  still  there,  looking  out  of  those  haunted 
 scarified  eyes  .  .  .  an  angry,
determined Bill.

'Well,' he said, 'whuh-whuh-what if it's nuh-nuh-not?

No  one  answered  him.  Thunder  boomed,  closer  now.  Eddie  looked  at  the 
sky and saw the
stormclouds  moving  in  from  the  west  in  black  thunderheads.  It  was  
going  to  rain  a  bitch,  as
his mother sometimes said.

'Nuh-nuh-how  I'll  t-t-tell  you  what,'  Bill  said,  looking  at  them.  
'None  of  you  have  to  guh-
guh-go w-with me if you d-don't want to. That's uh-uh-up to you.'

'I'll go along, Big Bill,' Richie said quietly.
'Me too,' Ben said.

'Sure,' Mike said with a shrug.

Beverly and Stan agreed, and Eddie last.


'I don't think so, Eddie,' Richie said. 'Your arm's not, you know, looking too 
cool.'
Eddie looked at Bill.

'I  w-w-want  h-him,'  Bill  said.  'You  w-w-walk  with  muh-muh-me,  
Eh-Eh-Eddie. I'll keep an
eye on yuh-you.'

'Thanks,  Bill,'  Eddie  said.  Bill's  tired,  half-crazy  face  seemed  
suddenly  lovely  to  him  —
lovely  and  well  loved.  He  felt  a  dim  sense  of  amazement.  I'd  die  
for  him,  I  guess,  if  he  told
me to. What kind of power is that? If it makes you look like Bill looks now, 
it's maybe not
such a good power to have.

'Yeah,  Bill's  got  the  ultimate  weapon,'  Richie  said.  'BO  bombs.'  He  
raised  his  left  arm  and

fluttered  his  right  hand  under  the  exposed  armpit.  Ben  and  Mike  
laughed  a  little,  and  Eddie
smiled.

Thunder  boomed  again,  close  and  loud  enough  this  time  to  make  them  
jump  and  huddle
closer  together.  The  wind  was  picking  up,  rattling  trash  around  in  
the  gutter.  The  first  of  the
dark  clouds  sailed  over  the  hazy  ringed  disc  of  the  sun,  and  their  
shadows  melted away. The
wind was cold, chilling the sweat on Eddie's uncovered arm. He shivered.

Bill looked at Stan and said a peculiar thing then.
'You got your b-b-bird-book, Stan?'

Stan tapped his hip pocket.

Bill looked at them again. 'Let's g-g-go down,' he said.

They  went  down  the  embankment  single-file  except  for  Bill,  who  stayed 
 with  Eddie  as  he
had  promised.  He  allowed  Richie  to  push  Silver  down,  and  when  they  
had  reached  the
bottom,  Bill  put  his  bike  in  its  accustomed  place  under  the  bridge.  
Then  they  stood  together,
looking around.

The  coming  storm  did  not  produce  a  darkness;  not  even,  precisely,  a  
dimness.  But  the
quality  of  the  light  had  changed,  and  things  stood  out  in  a  kind  
of  dreamlike  steely  relief:
shadowless,  clear,  chiselled.  Eddie  felt  a  sinking  of  horror  and  
apprehension  in  his  guts  as  he
realized  why  the  quality  of  this  light  seemed  so  familiar  —  it  was  
the  same  sort  of  light  he
remembered from the house at 29 Neibolt Street.

A  streak  of  lightning  tattooed  the  clouds,  bright  enough  to  make  him 
 wince.  He  put  a  hand

up  to  his  face  and  found  himself  counting: One  .  .  .  two  .  .  .  
three  .  .  .  And then the thunder
came  in  a  single  coughing  bark,  an  explosive  sound,  a  sound  like  an 
 M-80  firecracker,  and
they drew even closer together.

'Wasn't any rain forecast this morning,' Ben said uneasily. 'The paper said hot 
and hazy.'

Mike  was  scanning  the  sky.  The  clouds  up  there  were  black-bottomed  
keelboats,  high  and
heavy,  swiftly  overrunning  the  blue  haze  that  had  covered  the  sky  
from  horizon  to  horizon
when  he  and  Bill  came  out  of  the  Denbrough  house  after  lunch.  'It's 
 comin  fast,'  he  said.
'Never saw a storm come so fast.' And as if in confirmation, thunder whacked 
again.

'C-C-Come  on,'  Bill  said.  'L-Let's  put  Eh-Eh-Eddie's  Parchee-hee-si 
board in the cluh-cluh-
clubhouse.'

They  started  along  the  path  they  had  beaten  in  the  weeks  since  the  
incident  of  the  dam.  Bill
and  Eddie  were  at  the  head  of  the  line,  their  shoulders  brushing  
the  broad  green  leaves  of  the
shrubs,  the  others  behind  them.  The  wind  gusted  again,  making  the  
leaves  on  the  trees  and
bushes whisper together. Farther ahead, the bamboo rattled eerily, like drums 
in a jungle tale.

'Bill?' Eddie said in a low voice.
'What?'

'I  thought  this  was just in the movies, but . . . ' Eddie laughed a little. 
'I feel like somebody's

watching me.'

'Oh, they're th-th-there, all r-r-right,' Bill said.

Eddie looked around nervously and held his Parcheesi board a link tighter. He


11

Eddie's Room / 3:05 A.M.

opened the door on a monster from a horror comic.

A  gore-streaked  apparition  stood  there  and  it  could  only  be  Henry  
Bowers.  Henry  looked
like  a  corpse  which  has  returned  from  the  grave.  Henry's  face  was  a 
 frozen  witch-doctor's
mask  of  hate  and  murder.  His  right  hand  was  cocked  at  cheek-level, 
and even as Eddie's eyes
widened  and  he  began  to  draw  in  his  first  shocked  breath,  the  hand  
pistoned  forward,  the
switchblade glittering like silk.

With  no  thought  —  there  was  no  time;  if  he  had  stopped  to  think  
he  would  have  died   —
Eddie  slammed  the  door  closed.  It  struck  Henry's  forearm,  deflecting  
the  knife's  course  so
that it swung in a savage side-to-side arc less than an inch from Eddie's neck.

There  was  a  crunch  as  the  door  pinched  Henry's  arm  against  the  
jamb.  Henry  uttered  a
muffled  cry.  His  hand  opened.  The  knife  clattered  to  the  floor.  
Eddie  kicked  it.  It  skittered
under the TV.

Henry  threw  his  weight  against  the  door.  He  outweighed  Eddie  by  over 
 a  hundred  pounds
and  Eddie  was  driven back like a doll; his knees struck the bed and he fell 
on it. Henry came
into the room and swept the door shut behind him. He twisted the thumb-bolt as 
Eddie sat up,
wide-eyed, his throat already starting to whistle.

'Okay,  fag,'  Henry  said.  His  eyes  dropped  momentarily  to  the  floor,  
hunting  for  the  knife.
He  didn't  see  it.  Eddie  groped  on  the  nighttable  and  found  one  of  
the  two  bottles  of  Perrier
water  he  had  ordered  earlier  that  day.  This  was  the  full  one;  he  
had  drunk  the  other  before
going  to  the  library  because  his  nerves  were  shot  and  he  had  a  bad 
 case  of  acid-burn. Perrier
was very good for the digestion.

As  Henry  dismissed  the  knife  and  started  toward  him,  Eddie  gripped  
the  green  pear-shaped
bottle  by  the  neck  and  smashed  it  on  the  edge  of  the  nighttable.  
Perrier  foamed  and  fizzed
across it, flooding out most of the pill-bottles that stood there.

Henry's  shut  and  pants  were  heavy  with  blood,  both  fresh  and  
semi-dried.  His  right  hand
now hung at a strange angle.

'Babyfag,' Henry said, 'teach you to throw rocks.'

He made it to the bed and reached for Eddie, who still hardly realized what was 
happening.
No  more  than  forty  seconds  had  elapsed  since  he  had  opened  the  
door.  Henry  grabbed  for
him.  Eddie  thrust  the  ragged  base  of  the  Perrier  bottle  at  him.  It  
ripped  into  Henry's  face,
pulling open his right cheek in a twisted flap and puncturing Henry's right 
eye.

Henry  uttered  a  breathless  scream  and  staggered  backward.  His  slit  
eye,  leaking  whitish-
yellow  fluid,  hung  loosely  from  its  socket.  His  cheek  sprayed  blood  
in  a  gaudy  fountain.
Eddie's  own  cry  was  louder.  He  got  off  the  bed  and  went  toward  
Henry  —  to  help  him,
perhaps,  he  wasn't  really  sure  —  and  Henry  lurched  at  him  again.  
Eddie  thrust  with  the
Perrier  bottle  as  if  with  a  fencing  sword,  and  this  time  the  jagged 
 points  of  green  glass
punched  deep  into  Henry's  left  hand  and  sawed  at  his  fingers.  Fresh  
blood  flowed.  Henry
made  a  thick  grunting  noise,  the  sound,  almost,  of  a  man  clearing  
his  throat,  and  shoved
Eddie with his right hand.

Eddie  flew  back  and  struck  the  writing-desk.  His  left  arm  twisted  
behind  him  somehow
and he fell on it heavily. The pain was a sudden sickening flare. He felt the 
bone go along the
fault-line of that old break, and he had to clench his teeth against a scream 
of agony.

A shadow blotted out the light.

Henry  Bowers  was  standing  over  him,  swaying  back  and  forth.  His  
knees  buckled.  His  left
hand was dripping blood on the front of Eddie's robe.


Eddie  had  held  onto  the  stump  of  the  Perrie r  bottle  and  now,  as  
Henry's  knees  came
completely  unhinged,  he  got  it  in  front  of  him,  jagged  base  pointing 
 upward,  the  cap  braced
against  his  sternum.  Henry  came  down  like  a  tree,  impaling  himself  
on  the  bottle.  Eddie  felt  it
shatter  in  his  hand  and  a  fresh  bolt  of  grinding  agony  shuddered  
through  his  left  arm,  which
was  still  trapped  under  his  body.  Fresh  warmth  cascaded  over  him.  He 
 wasn't  sure  if  this
batch was Henry's blood or his.

Henry  twitched  like  a  landed  trout.  His  shoes  rattled  an  almost  
syncopated  beat  on  the
carpet.  Eddie  could  smell  his  rotten  breath.  Then  Henry  stiffened  and 
 rolled  over.  The  bottle
protruded  grotesquely  from  his  midsection,  capped  end  pointing  toward  
the  ceiling,  as  if  it
had grown there.

'Gug'  Henry  said,  and  said  no more. He looked up at the ceiling. Eddie 
thought he might be
dead.

Eddie  fought  off  the  waves  of  faintness  that  wanted  to  cover  him  
over  and  drag  him  down.
He  got  to  his  knees,  and  finally  to  his  feet.  There  was  fresh  pain 
 as  his  broken  arm  swung  out
in  front  of  him  and  that  cleared  his  head  a  little  Wheezing,  
fighting  for  breath,  he  made  it  to
the  nighttable.  He  picked  his  aspirator  out  of  a  puddle  of  
carbonated  water,  stuck  it  in  his
mouth,  and  triggered  it  off.  He  shuddered  at  the  taste,  then  gave  
himself  another  blast.  He
looked around at the body on the carpet  — could that be Henry? could it 
possibly be? It was.
Grown  old,  his  crewcut  more  gray  than  black,  his  body  now  fat  and  
white  and  sluglike,  it  was
still Henry. And Henry was dead. At long last, Henry was —

'Gug,'  Henry said, and sat up. His hands clawed at the air, as if for holds 
which only Henry
could  see.  His  gouged  eye  leaked  and  dribbled;  its  bottom  arc  now  
bulged  pregnantly  down
onto  his  cheek.  He  looked  around,  saw  Eddie  shrinking  back against the 
wall, and tried to get
up.

He opened his mouth and a stream of blood gushed out. Henry collapsed again.

Heart  racing,  Eddie  fumbled  for  the  telephone  and  succeeded  only  in  
knocking  it  off  the
table  and  onto  the  bed.  He  snatched  it  up  and  dialed  0.  The  phone  
rang  again  and  again  and
again.

Come on,  Eddie thought,  what  are  you  doing  down  there,  jacking  off?  
Come  on,  please,

answer the frigging phone!

It  rang  again  and  again.  Eddie  kept  his  eyes  on  Henry,  expecting  
him  to  start trying to gain
his feet again at any moment. Blood. Dear God, so much blood.

'Desk,' a fuzzy, resentful voice said at last.

'Ring Mr Denbrough's room,' Eddie said. 'Quick as you can.' With his other ear 
he was now
listening  to  the  rooms  around  him.  How  loud  had  they  been?  Was  
someone  going  to  pound
on the door and ask if everything was all right in there?

'You sure you want me to ring?' the clerk asked. 'It's ten after three.'

'Yes,   do   it!'   Eddie   nearly   screamed.   The   hand   holding   the   
phone   was   trembling   in
convulsive  little  bursts.  There  was  a  nest  of  waspy,  rotten-ugly  
singing  in  his  other  arm.  Had
Henry moved again? No; surely not.

'Okay, okay,' the clerk said. 'Cool your jets, my friend.'

There  was  a  click,  and  then  the  hoarse  burr of a room-phone ringing. 
Come on, Bill, come
on, c —

A  sudden  thought,  gruesomely  plausible,  occurred  to  him.  Suppose  Henry 
 had  visited  Bill's

room  first?  Or  Richie's?  Ben's?  Bev's?  Or  had  Henry  perhaps  paid  a  
visit  to  the  library?
Surely  he  had  been somewhere  else first; if someone hadn't softened Henry 
up, it would have
been  Eddie  lying  dead  on  the  floor,  with  a  switchblade  growing  out  
of  his  chest  the  way  the
neck  of  the  Perrier  bottle  was  growing  out  of  Henry's  gut.  Or  
suppose  Henry  had  visited  all
the  others  first,  catching  them  bleary  and  half-asleep,  as  Henry  had  
caught  him?  Suppose  they


were  all  dead?  And  that  thought  was  so  awful  Eddie  believed  he  
would  soon  begin  screaming
if someone didn't answer the phone in Bill's room.

'Please, Big Bill,' Eddie whispered. 'Please be there, man.'

The phone was picked up and Bill's voice, uncharacteristically cautious, said: 
'H-H-Hello?'
'Bill,' Eddie said . . . almost babbled. 'Bill, thank God.'

'Eddie?'   Bill's   voice   grew   momentarily   fainter,   speaking   to   
someone   else,   telling   the

someone who it was. Then he was back strong. 'W-What's the muh-hatter, Eddie?'

'It's  Henry  Bowers,'  Eddie  said.  He  looked  at  the  body  on  the  floor 
 again.  Had  it  changed
position?  This  time  it  was  not  so  easy  to  persuade  himself  it  
hadn't.  'Bill,  he  came  here  .  .  .
and          I  killed  him.  He  had  a  knife.  I  think  .  .  .  '  He  
lowered  his  voice.  'I  think  it  was  the  same
knife he had that day. When we went into the sewers. Do you remember?'

'I r-r-remember,' Bill said grimly. 'Eddie, listen to me. I want you to

12

The Barrens / 1:55 P.M.

g-g-go back and tell B-B-Ben to c-come up h-h-here.'

'Okay,'  Eddie  said,  and  dropped  back  at  once.  They  were  approaching  
the  clearing  now.

Thunder rumbled in the overcast sky, and the bushes sighed in the rising 
breeze.

Ben  joined  him  as  they  came  into  the  clearing.  The  trapdoor  to  the  
clubhouse  stood  open,
an  improbable  square  of  blackness  in  the  green.  The  sound  of  the  
river  was  very  clear,  and
Bill  was  suddenly  struck  by  a  crazy  certainty:  that  he  was  
experiencing  that  sound,  and  this
place, for the last time in his childhood. He drew a deep breath, smelling 
earth and air and the
distant  sooty  dump,  fuming  like  a  sullen  volcano  that  cannot  quite  
make  up  its  mind  to  erupt.
He saw a flock of birds fly off the railroad trestle and toward the Old Cape. 
He looked up at
the boiling clouds.

'What is it?' Ben asked.

'Why   h-h-haven't   they   tried   to   guh-guh-het  u-us?'  Bill  asked.  
'They're  th-there.  Eh-Eh-
Eddie was ruh-hight about that. I can fuh-fuh-heel them.'

'Yeah,'  Ben  said.  'I  guess  they  might  be  stupid  enough  to  think  
we're  going  back  into  the
clubhouse. Then they'd have us trapped.'

'Muh-muh-maybe,'  Bill  said,  and  he  felt  a  sudden  helpless  fury  at  
his  stutter,  which made it
impossible  for  him  to  talk  fast.  Perhaps  they  were  things  he  would  
have  found  impossible  to
say  anyway  —  how  he  felt  he  could  almost  see  through  Henry  Bowers's 
 eyes,  how  he  felt
that,  although  on  opposite  sides,  pawns  controlled  by  opposing  forces, 
 he  and  Henry  had
grown very close.

Henry expected them to stand and fight.

It expected them to stand and fight.

And be killed.

A  chilly  explosion  of  white  light  seemed  to  fill  his  head.  They  
would  be  victims  of  the
killer  that  had  been  stalking  Derry  ever  since  George's  death  —  all  
seven  of  them.  Perhaps
their bodies would be found, perhaps not. It all depended on whether or not It 
could or would
protect Henry  —  and, to a lesser degree, Belch and Victor.  Yes. To the 
outside, to the rest of
this town, we'll have been victims of the killer. And that's right, in a funny 
sort of way that
really is right. It wants us dead. Henry's the tool to get it done so It 
doesn't have to come out.
Me first, I think  — Beverly and Richie might be able to  hold the others, or 
Mike, but Stan's
scared, and so's Ben, although I think he's stronger than Stan. And Eddie's got 
a broken arm.
Why did I lead them down here? Christ! Why did I?


'Bill?'  Ben  said  anxiously.  The  others  joined  them  beside  the  
clubhouse. Thunder whacked
again,  and  the  bushes  began  to  rustle  more  urgently.  The  bamboo  
rattled  on  in  the  fading
stormy light.

'Bill — ' It was Richie now.

'Shhh!' The others fell uneasily silent under his blazing haunted eyes.

He  stared  at  the  underbrush,  at  the  path  twisting  away  through  it  
and  back  toward  Kansas
Street,  and  felt  his  mind  suddenly  go  up  another  notch,  as  if  to  a 
 higher  plane.  There  was  no
stuttering  in  his  mind;  he  felt  as  if  his  thoughts  had  been  borne  
away  on  a  mad  flow  of
intuition — as if everything were coming to him.

George at one end, me and my friends at the other. And then it will stop
(again)

again,  yes,  again,  because  this  has  happened  before  and  there  always  
has  to  be  some
sacrifice at the end, some terrible thing to stop it, I don't know how I can 
know that but I do .

. . and they . . . they . . .

'They  luh-luh-let  it  happen,'  Bill  muttered,  staring  wide-eyed  at  the  
ratty  pigtail  of  path.
'Shuh-Shuh-Sure they d-d-do.'

'Bill?'  Bev  asked,  pleading.  Stan  stood  on  one  side  of  her,  small  
and  neat  in  a  blue  polo
shirt and chinos. Mike stood on the other, looking at Bill intensely, as if 
reading his thoughts.

They let it happen, they always do, and things quiet down, things go on, It . . 
. It . . .

(sleeps)

sleeps . . . or hibernates like a bear . . . and then it starts again, and they 
know . . . people
know . . . they know it has to be so It can be.

'I luh-hih-luh-l-l-l — '

Oh please God oh please God he thrusts his fists please God against the posts 
let me get
this  out  the  posts  and  still  insists  oh  God  oh  Christ  OH  PLEASE  
LET  ME  BE  ABLE  TO
TALK!

'I  l-led  you  d-down  huh-here  b-b-b-b-because  nuh-nuh-noplace  is  
s-s-safe,' Bill said. Spittle
blabbered  from  his  lips;  he  wiped  them  with  the  back  of  one  hand.  
'Duh-Duh-Derry  is  It.  D-
D-Do  you  uh-uh-understand  m-m-me?'  He  glared  at  them;  they  drew  away  
a  little,  their  eyes
shiny,  almost  thanotropic  with  fright.  'Duh-herry  is  Ih-Ih-It!  
Eh-Eh-hennyp-p-place  we  g-g-
go  .  .  .  when  Ih-Ih-It  g-g-g-gets  uh-us,  they  w-w-wuh-hon't 
suh-suh-see, they  w-w-won't  huh-
huh-hear,  they  w-w-won't  nuh-nuh-know.'  He  looked  at  them,  pleading.  
'Duh-don't  y-y-you
sub-see  h-how  it  ih-ih-is?  A-A-A11  we  c-c-can  duh-duh-do  is  to  
t-t-try  and  fuh-hinish  w-
what w-w-w-we stuh-harted.'

Beverly  saw  Mr  Ross  getting  up,  looking  at  her,  folding  his  paper,  
and  simply  going  into
his house. They won't see, they won't hear, they won't know. And my father

(take those pants off slutchild)

had meant to kill her.

Mike  thought  of  lunch  with  Bill.  Bill's  mother  had  been  off  in  her  
own  dreamy  world,
seeming   not   to   see   either   of   them,   reading   a   Henry   James   
novel   while   the   boys   made
sandwiches  and  gobbled  them  standing  at  the  counter.  Richie  thought  
of  Stan's  neat  but
utterly  empty  house.  Stan  had  been  a  little  surprised;  his  mother  
was  almost  always  home  at
lunch  time.  On  the  few  occasions  when  she  wasn't,  she  left  a  note  
saying  where  she  could  be
reached. But there had been no note today. The car was gone, and that was all. 
'Probably went
shopping  with  her  friend  Debbie,'  Stan  said,  frowning  a  little,  and  
had  set  to  work  making
egg-salad  sandwiches.  Richie  had  forgotten  about  it.  Until  now.  Eddie  
thought  of  his  mother.
When  he  had  gone  out  with  his  Parcheesi  board  there  had  been  none 
of the usual cautions:  Be
careful,  Eddie,  get  under  cover  if  it  rains,  Eddie,  don't  you  dare  
play  any  rough  games,
Eddie.  She  hadn't  asked  if  he  had  his  aspirator,  hadn't  told  him  
what  time  to  be  home,  hadn't


warned  him  against  'those  rough  boys  you  play  with.'  She  had  simply  
gone  on  watching  her
soap-opera story on TV, as if he didn't exist.

As if he didn't exist.

A  version  of  the  same  thought  went  through  all  of  the  boys'  minds:  
they  had,  at  some  point
between getting up this morning and lunch-time, simply become ghosts.

Ghosts.

'Bill,' Stan said harshly, 'if we cut across? Through the Old Cape?'

Bill  shook  his  head.  'I  don't  thuh-thuh-hink  s-s-so.  We'd  g-g-get  
c-c-caught in the buh-buh-
bam-b-b-boo  .  .  .  the  quh-quh-quick-m-mud . .  . or there'd b-b-be  
ruh-ruh-real p-p-p-pirahna
fuh-fuh-fish in the K-K-Kenduskeag . . . o-o-or suh-suh-homething e-e-else.'

Each  had  his  or  her  own  different  vision  of  the  same  end.  Ben  saw  
bushes  which  suddenly
became  man-eating  plants.  Beverly  saw  flying  leeches  like  the  ones  
that  had  come  out  of  that
old  refrigerator.  Stan  saw  the  mucky  ground  in  the  bamboo  vomiting  
up  the  living  corpses  of
children   caught   in   there   by   the   fabled   quickmud.   Mike   Hanlon  
 imagined   small   Jurassic
reptiles  with  horrid  sawteeth  suddenly  boiling  out  of  the  cleft  of  a 
 rotten  tree,  attacking  them,
biting  them  to  pieces.  Richie  saw  the  Crawling  Eye  oozing  down  on  
top  of  them  as  they  ran
under  the  railroad  trestle.  And  Eddie  saw  them  climbing  the  Old  Cape 
 embankment  only  to
look   up  and  see  the  leper  standing  at  the  top,  his  sagging  flesh  
acrawl  with  beetles  and
maggots, waiting for them.

'If  we  could  get  out  of  town  somehow  .  .  .  '  Richie  muttered,  
then  winced  as  thunder
shouted  a  furious  negative  from  the  sky.  More  rain  fell  —  it was 
still only squalling, but soon
it  would  begin  to  come  down  seriously,  in  sheets  and  torrents.  The  
day's  hazy  peace  was  now
utterly  gone,  as  if  it  had  never  been  at  all.  'We'd  be  safe  if  we 
 could  just  get  out  of  this
fucking town.'

Beverly  began:  'Beep-b  —  '  And  then  a  rock  came  flying  out  of  the  
shaggy  bushes  and
struck  Mike  on  the  side  of  the  head.  He  staggered  backward,  blood  
flowing  through  the  tight
cap of his hair, and would have fallen if Bill hadn't caught him.

'Teach you to throw rocks!' Henry's voice floated mockingly to them.

Bill   could   see   the   others   looking   around,   wild-eyed,   ready   to 
  bolt   in   six   different
directions. And if they did that, it really would be over.

'B-B-Ben!' he said sharply.

Ben looked at him. 'Bill, we gotta run. They — '

Two  more  rocks  flew  out  of  the  bushes.  One  struck  Stan  on  the  
upper  thigh.  He  yelled,
more  surprised  than  hurt.  Beverly  sidestepped  the  second.  It  struck  
the  ground  and  rolled
through the clubhouse trapdoor.

'D-D-Do   you   r-r-ruh-remember   the   f-f-first   duh-day   you   c-c-came  
d-down  here?'  Bill
shouted over the thunder. 'The d-d-d-day schuh-hool l-let ow-out?'

'Bill — ' Richie shouted.

Bill  thrust  a  shushing  hand  at  him;  his  eyes  remained  fixed  on  Ben, 
 pinning  him  to  the
spot.

'Sure,'  Ben  said,  miserably  trying  to  look  in  all  directions  at  
once.  The  bushes  were  now
wavering and dancing wildly, their motion nearly tidal.

'The   druh-druh-drain,'   Bill   said.   'The   p-p-pumping-stuh-hation.   
Thah-that's   where   we're
suh-suh-hupposed to g-g-go. Take us there!'

'But — '

'Tuh-tuh-take us th-there!'

A  fusillade  of  rocks  whizzed  out  of  the  bushes  and  for  a  moment  
Bill  saw  Victor  Criss's
face,  somehow  frightened,  drugged,  and  avid  all  at  the  same  time.  
Then  a  rock  smashed   into
his  cheekbone  and  it  was  Mike's  turn  to  keep  Bill  from  falling  
down.  For  a  moment  he
couldn't  see  straight.  His  cheek  felt  numb.  Then  sensation  returned  
in  painful  throbs  and  he


felt  blood  running  down  his  face.  He  swiped  at  his  cheek,  wincing  
at  the   painful  knob  that
was  rising  there,  looked  at  the  blood,  wiped  it  on  his  jeans.  His  
hair  whipped  wildly  in  the
freshening wind.

'Teach you to throw rocks, you stuttering asshole!' Henry half-laughed, 
half-screamed.

'Tuh-Tuh-Take us!'  Bill yelled. He understood now why he had sent Eddie back 
to get Ben;
it  was  that  pumping-station  they  were  supposed  to  go  to,  that  very  
one,  and only Ben knew
exactly  which  one  it  was  —   they  ran  along  both  banks  of  the  
Kenduskeag  at  irregular
intervals. 'Ih-ih-hit's the pluh-pluh-hace! The w-w-way ih-in! The 
wuh-wuh-wuh-way to It!'

'Bill, you can't know that!' Beverly cried.

He shouted furiously at her — at all of them: 'I know!'

Ben  stood  there  for  a  moment,  wetting  his  lips,  looking  at  Bill.  
Then  he  struck off across
the  clearing,  heading  toward  the  river.  A  brilliant  bolt  of  lightning 
 streaked  across  the  sky,
purplish-white,  followed  by  a  rip  of  thunder  that  made  Bill  reel  on  
his  feet.  A  fist-sized chunk
of                    rock  sailed  past  his  nose  and  struck  Ben's  
buttocks. He yipped with pain and his hand went
to the spot.

'Yaah,fatboy!'  Henry  cried  in  that  same  half-laughing,  half-screaming   
voice.   The   bushes
rustled  and  crashed  and  Henry  appeared  as  the  rain  stopped  fooling  
around  and  came  in  a

downpour.  Water  ran  ni  Henry's  crewcut,  in  his  eyebrows,  down  his  
cheeks.  His  grin  showed

all his teeth. Teach you to throw r — '

Mike  had  found  one  of  the  pieces  of  scrapwood  left  over  from  
building  the  clubhouse  roof
and now he threw it. It flipped over twice and struck  Henry's forehead. He 
screamed, clapped
one hand to the spot like a man who's just had one hell of a good idea, and sat 
down hard.

'Ruh-ruh-run!' Bill hollered. 'A-After Buh-Buh-Ben!'

More  crashings  and  stumblings  in  the  bushes,  and  as  the  rest  of  ht 
e  Losers  ran  after  Ben

Hanscom, Victor and Belch appeared, Henry stood up, and the three of them gave 
chase.

Even  later,  when  the  rest  of  that  day  had  come  back  to  Ben,  he  
recalled  only  jumbled
images  of  their  run  through  the  bushes.  He  remembered  branches  
overloaded  with  dripping
leaves   slapping   against   his   face,   dousing   him   with   cold   
water;   he   remembered   that   the
thunder   and   lightning   seemed   to   have   become   almost   constant,   
and   he   remembered   that
Henry's  screams  for  them  to  come  back  and  fight  seemed  to  merge  
with  the  sound  of  the
Kenduskeag  as  they  drew  closer  to  it.  Every  time  he  slowed,  Bill  
would  whack  him  on  the
back        to make him hurry up.

What if I can't find it? What if I can't find that particular pumping-station?

The breath tore in and  out  of  his  lungs,  hot  and  bloody-tasting in the 
back of his throat. A
stitch  was  sinking  into  his  side.  His  buttocks  sang  where  the  rock  
had  hit  him.  Beverly  had
said Henry and his friends meant to kill them, and Ben believed it now, yes he 
did.

He  came  to  the  Kenduskeag's  bank  so  suddenly  that  he  nearly  plunged  
over  the  edge.  He
managed   to   get   his   balance,   and   then   the   embankment,   undercut 
  by   the   spring   runoff,
collapsed  and  he  went  tumbling  over  anyway,  skidding  all  the  way  to  
the  edge  of  the  fast-
running water, his shirt rucking up in the back, clayey mud streaking and 
sticking to his skin.

Bill piled into him and yanked him to his feet.

The others burst out of the bushes which overhung the bank one after the other. 
Richie and
Eddie  were  last,  Richie  with  one  arm  slung  around  Eddie's  waist,  his 
 dripping  specs  clinging
precariously to the end of his nose.

'Wuh-Wuh-Where?' Bill shouted.

Ben  looked  first  left  and  then  right,  aware  that  the  time  was  
suicidally  short.  The  river
seemed  higher  already,  and  the  rain-dark  sky  had  given  it  a  
dangerous  slate-gray  color  as  it
boiled  its  way  along.  Its  banks  were  choked  with  underbrush  and  
stunted  trees,  all  of  them
now dancing to the wind's tune. He could hear Eddie sobbing for breath.

'Wuh-wuh-where?'


'I don't kn  —  '  he  began,  and  then  he  saw  the  leaning  tree  and  the 
 eroded  cave  beneath  it.
That was where he had hidden that first day. He had dozed off and when he woke 
up he had
heard  Bill  and  Eddie  goofing  around.  Then  the  big  boys  had  come  .  
.  .  seen  .  .  .  conquered.
Ta-ta, bays, it was a real baby dam, believe me.

'There!' he shouted. 'That way!'

Lightning  flashed  again  and  this  time  Ben  could  hear  it,  a  buzzing  
noise  like  an  overloaded
Lionel  train-transformer.  It  struck  the  tree  and  blue-white  electric  
fire  sizzled  its  gnarly  base
into  splinters  and  toothpicks  sized  for  a  fairytale  giant.  It  fell  
toward  the  river  with  a  rending
crash,  driving  spray  high  into  the  air.  Ben  drew  in  a  dismayed  gasp 
 and  smelled  something
hot  and  punky  and  wild.  A  fireball  rolled  up  the  bole  of  the  
downed  tree,  seemed  to  flash
brighter,  and  went  out.  Thunder  exploded,  not  above  them  but  around  
them, as if they stood
in     the center of the thunderclap. The rain sheeted down.

Bill  thumped  him  on  the  back,  awaking  him  from  his  dazed  
contemplation  of  these  things.

'Guh-guh-GO!'

Ben  went,  splashing  and  stumbling  along  the  verge  of  the  river,  his  
hair  hanging  in  his
eyes.  He  reached  the  tree  —  the  little  root-cave  beneath  it  had  
been  obliterated  —  and
climbed over it, digging his toes into its wet hide, scraping his hands and 
forearms.

Bill  and  Richie  manhandled  Eddie  over,  and  as  he  stumbled  off  the  
tree-trunk, Ben caught
him. They both went tumbling to the ground. Eddie cried out.

'You all right?' Ben shouted.

'I guess so,' Eddie shouted back, getting to his feet. He fumbled for his 
aspirator and almost
dropped it. Ben grabbed it for him and Eddie gave him a grateful look as he 
stuffed it into his
mouth and triggered it.

Richie  came  over,  then  Stan  and  Mike.  Bill  boosted  Beverly  up  onto  
the  tree  and  Ben  and
Richie  caught  her  coming  down  on  the  far  side,  her  hair  plastered  
to  her  head,  her  blue  jeans
now black.

Bill  came  last,  pulling  himself  onto  the  trunk  and  swinging  his  legs 
 around.  He saw Henry
and  the  other  two  splashing  down  the  river  toward  them,  and  as  he  
slid  off  the  fallen  tree  he
shouted: 'Ruh-ruh-rocks! Throw rocks!'

There  were  plenty  of  them  here  on  the  bank,  and  the  lightning-struck 
tree made a perfect
barricade.  In  a  moment  or  two  all  seven  of  them  were  chucking  rocks 
 at  Henry  and  his  pals.
They  had  nearly  reached  the  tree;  the  range  was  point-blank. They were 
driven back, yelling
with pain and fury, as rocks struck their faces, their chests, their arms and 
legs.

'Teach  us  to  throw  rocks!'  Richie  shouted,  and  chucked  one  the  size  
of  a  hen's  egg  at
Victor.  It  struck  his  shoulder  and  bounced  almost  straight  up  into  
the  air.  Victor  howled.  'Ah
say . . . Ah say . . . go on an teach us, boy! We learn good!'

'Yeeeeh-aaaah!' Mike screamed. 'How do you like it? How do you like it?'

The  answer  was  not  much.  They  retreated  until  they  were  out  of  
range  and  huddled
together.  A  moment  later  they  climbed  the  bank,  slipping  and  
stumbling  on  the  slick  wet
earth,  which  was  already  honeycombed  with  little  running  streamlets,  
holding  onto  branches
to stay upright.

They disappeared into the underbrush.

'They're gonna go around us, Big Bill,' Richie said, pushing his glasses up on 
his nose.
'That's oh-oh-okay,' Bill said . 'G-Go on, B-B-Ben. We'll fuh-fuh-follow 
y-you.'

Ben  trotted  along  the  embankment,  paused  (expecting  that  Henry  and  
the  others  would
burst  out  into  his  face  at  any  moment),  and  saw  the  pumping-station  
twenty  yards  farther
down  the  streambed.  The  others  followed  him  to  it.  They  could  see  
other  cylinders  on  the
opposite  bank,  one  fairly  close,  the  other  forty  yards  upstream.  
Those  two  were  both  shooting
torrents  of  muddy  water  into  the  Kenduskeag,  but  only  a  trickle  was  
coming  from  the  pipe


sticking out  of  the  embankment  below  this  one.  It  wasn't  humming,  
either,  Ben  noticed.  The
pumping machinery had broken down.

He looked at Bill thoughtfully . . . and with some fright.

Bill  was  looking  at  Richie,  Stan,  and  Mike.  'W-W-We  g-guh-hotta  get  
the  -l l-lid oh-oh-off,'
he said. 'H-H-Help m-m-me.'

There  were  handholds  in  the  iron,  but  the  rain  had  made  them  
slippery  and  the  lid  itself

was  incredibly  heavy.  Ben  moved  in  next  to  Bill,  and  Bill  shifted  
his  hands  a  little  to  make
room.  Ben  could  hear  water  dripping  inside  —   an  echoey,  unpleasant  
sound,  like  water
dripping into a well.

'Nuh-nuh-NOW!'  Bill  shouted,  and  the  five  of  them  heaved  in  unison.  
The  lid  moved  with
an ugly grating sound.

Beverly grabbed on beside Richie and Eddie pushed with his good arm.

'One,  two,  three,   push!'  Richie  chanted.  The  lid  grated  a  little  
farther  off  the  top  of  the
cylinder. Now a crescent of darkness showed.

'One, two, three, push!'
The crescent fattened.
'One, two, three, push!'

Ben shoved until red spots danced in front of his eyes.
'Stand back!' Mike shouted. 'There it goes, there it goes!'

They  stood  away  and  watched  as  the  big  circular  cap  overbalanced,  
then  fell.  It  dug  a  slash
in  the  wet  earth  and  landed  upside  down,  like  an  oversized  checker.  
Beetles  scurried  off  its
surface and into the matted grass.

'Uck,' Eddie said.

Bill  peered  inside.  Iron  rungs  descended  to  a  circular  pool  of  black 
 water,  its  surface  now
pocked  with  raindrops.  The  silent  pump  brooded  in  the  middle  of  
this,  half-submerged. He
could  see  water  flowing  into  the  pumping-station  from  the  mouth  of  
its  inflow  pipe,  and  with
a sinking in his guts he thought: That's where we have to go. In there.

'Eh-Eh-Eh-Eddie. G-Grab on to m-m-me.'
Eddie looked at him, uncomprehending.

'Like a puh-puh-pigger-back. Hold on with y-your g-g-good ah-ah-arm.' He 
demonstrated.
Eddie understood but was reluctant.

'Quick!' Bill snapped. 'Th-Th-They'll b-b-be here!'

Eddie  grabbed  on  around  Bill's  neck;  Stan  and  Mike  boosted  him  up  
so  he  could  hook  his
legs  around  Bill's  midsection.  As  Bill  swung  clumsily  over  the  lip  
of  the  cylinder,  Ben  saw
that Eddie's eyes were tightly shut.

Over  the  rain,  he  could  hear  another  sound:  whipping  branches,  
snapping  twigs,  voices.

Henry, Victor, and Belch. The world's ugliest cavalry charge.

Bill  gripped  the  rough  concrete  lip  of  the  cylinder  and  felt  his  
way  down,  step  by  careful
step.  The  iron  rungs  were  slippery.  Eddie  had  him  in  what  was  
almost  a  deathgrip,  and  Bill
supposed  he  was  getting  a  pretty  graphic  demonstration  of  what  
Eddie's  asthma  was  really  all
about.

'I'm scared, Bill,' Eddie whispered.

'I-I-I am, too.'

He  let  go  of  the  concrete  rim  and  grabbed  the  topmost  rung.  
Although  Eddie  was  nearly
choking  him  and  felt  as  if  he  had  already  gained  forty  pounds,  Bill 
 paused  a  moment,  looking
at  the  Barrens,  the  Kenduskeag,  the  racing  clouds.  A  voice  inside  —  
not  a  frightened  voice,
just  a  firm  one  —  had  told  him  to  take  a  good  look,  in  case  he  
never  saw  the   upper world
again.

So he looked, then began to descend with Eddie clinging to his back.

'I can't hold on much longer,' Eddie managed.


'You w-w-won't have to,' Bill said. 'We're almost duh-hown.'

One  of  his  feet  went  into  chilly  water.  He  felt  for  the  next  rung  
and  found  it.  There  was
another  below  that  and  then  the  ladder  ended.  He  was  standing  in  
knee-deep water beside the
pump.

He squatted, wincing as the cold water soaked his pants, and let Eddie off. He 
drew a deep
breath. The smell  wasn't  so  hot,  but  it  was  great  not  to  have  
Eddie's  arm  wrapped  around  his
throat.

He looked up at the cylinder's mouth. It was about ten feet over his head. The 
others were
grouped  around  the  rim,  looking  down.  'C-C-Come  on!'  he  shouted.  
'Wuh-one  at  a t-t-time!
Be quick!'

Beverly  came  first,  swinging  easily  over  the  rim  and  grabbing  the  
ladder,  and  Stan  next.
The  others  followed.  Richie  came  last,  pausing  to  listen  to  the  
progress  of  Henry  and  friends.
He  thought,  from  the  sound  of  their  blundering  progress,  that  they  
would  probably  pass  a
little   to   the   left   of   this   pumping-station,   but   almost   
certainly   not   by   enough   to   make   a
difference.

At that moment Victor bellowed: 'Henry! There! Tozier!'

Richie  looked  around  and  saw  them  rushing  toward  him.  Victor  was  in  
the  lead  .  .  .  and
then Henry pushed him aside so savagely that Victor skidded to his knees. Henry 
had a knife,
all right, a regular pigsticker. Drops of water were falling from the blade.

Richie  glanced  into  the  cylinder,  saw  Ben  and  Stan  helping  Mike  off  
the  ladder,  and  swung
over  himself.  Henry  understood  what  he  was  doing  and   screamed  at  
him.  Richie,  laughing
crazily,  slammed  his  left  hand  in  the  crook  of  his  right  elbow  and  
stuck  his  forearm  skyward,
his hand fisted in what may  be  the  world's  oldest  gesture.  To  be  sure  
Henry  got  the  point,  he
popped his middle finger up.

'You'll die down there!' Henry shouted.

'Prove  it!'  Richie  shouted,  laughing.  He  was  terrified  of  going  into  
this  concrete  throat,  but
he  still  couldn't  stop  laughing.  And  in  his  Irish  Cop's  Voice  he  
bugled:  'Sure  an  begorrah,  the
luck of the Irish never runs out, me foine lad!'

Henry  slipped  on  the  wet  grass  and  went  sprawling  on  his  butt  less  
than  twenty  feet  from

where  Richie  stood,  his  feet  on  the   top  rung  of  the  ladder  bolted  
to  the  inner  curve  of  the
pumping-station, his head and chest out.

'Hey,  banana-heels!'  Richie  shouted,  delirious  with  triumph,  and  then  
scooted  down  the
ladder.  The  iron  rungs  were  slick  and  once  he  almost  fell.  Then  
Bill  and  Mike  grabbed  him
and he was standing up to his knees in water with the rest of them in a loose 
circle around the
pump.  He  was  trembling  all  over,  he  felt  hot  and  cold  chills  
chasing  each  other  up  his  back,
and still he couldn't stop laughing.

'You should  have  seen  him,  Big  Bill,  clumsy  as  ever,  still  can't  get 
 out  of  his  own  frockin
way — '

Henry's  head  appeared  in  the  circular  opening  at  the  top.  Scratches  
from  branches  and

brambles crisscrossed his cheeks. His mouth was working, and his eyes blazed.

'Okay,'  he  shouted  down  at  them.  His  words  had  a  flat  resonance  
inside  the  concrete
cylinder, not quite an echo. 'Here I come. Got you now.'

He  swung  one  leg  over,  felt  for  the  topmost  rung  with  his  foot,  
found  it,  swung  the  other
one over.

Speaking  loud,  Bill  said:  'W-When  h-h-he  guh-gets  d-d-down cluh-hose  
e-e-enough,  w-w-
we  all  gruh-gruh-grab  h-him.  P-P-Pull  h-him  d-d-down.  Duh-Duh-Duck  him  
uh-under.  G-G-
Got i-it?'

'Right-o, guv'nor,' Richie said, and snapped a salute with one trembling hand.
'Got you,' Ben said.


Stan  tipped  a  wink  at  Eddie,  who  didn't  understand  what  was  going  
on  — except it seemed
to  him  that  Richie  had  gone  crazy.  He  was  laughing  like  a  loon  
while  Henry  Bowers — the
dreaded Henry Bowers — prepared to come down and kill them all like rats in a 
rain-barrel.

'All ready for him, Bill!' Stan cried.

Henry  froze  three  rungs  down.  He  looked  down  at  the  Losers  over  his 
 shoulder.  His  face
seemed, for the first time, doubtful.

Eddie  suddenly  got  it.  If  ht ey  came  down,  they  would  have  to  come  
one  at  a  time.  It  was

too  high  to  jump,  especially  with  the  pumping  machinery  to  land  on,  
and  here  they  were,  the
seven of them, waiting in a tight little circle.

'Cuh-cuh-home   oh-on,   H-Henry,'   Bill   said   pleasantly.   'Wuh-wuh-what  
 are   you   w-w-
waiting for?'

'That's right,' Richie chimed in. 'You like to beat up little kids, right? Come 
on, Henry.'

'We're  waiting,  Henry,'  Bev  said  sweetly.  'I  don't  think  you'll  like  
it  when  you  get  down
here, but come on if you want to.'

'Unless  you're  chicken,'  Ben  added.  He  began  to  make  chicken  sounds.  
Richie  joined  him
at  once  and  soon  all  of  them  were  doing  it.  The  derisive  clucking  
rebounded  between  the
damp,  trickling  walls.  Henry  looked  down  at  them,  the  knife  clutched 
in his left hand, his face
the  color  of  old  bricks.  He  put  up  with  perhaps  thirty  seconds  of  
it  and  then  climbed  out
again. The Losers sent up catcalls and insults.

'O-O-Okay,'  Bill  said.  He  spoke  in  a  lower  voice.  'W-We  gun-got  to  
get  ih-ih-into  that
druh-hain. Quh-quh-quick.'

'Why?'  Beverly  asked,  but  Bill  was  spared  the  effort  of  an  answer.  
Henry  reappeared  at  the

rim  of  the  pumping-station and dropped a rock the size of a soccer ball into 
the pipe. Beverly
screamed  and  Stan  pulled  Eddie  against  the  circular  wall  with  a  
hoarse  yell.  The  rock  struck
the  pumping  machinery's  rusty  housing  and  produced  a  musical  bonggg!  
It  ricocheted  left  and
struck  the  concrete  wall,  missing  Eddie  by  less  than  half  a  foot.  A 
 chip  of  concrete  flicked
painfully against his cheek. The rock fell into the water with a splash.

'Quh-quh-quick!'   Bill   shouted   again,   and   they   crowded   around   
the   pumping-station's
inflow  pipe.  Its  bore  was  about  five  feet  in  diameter.  Bill  sent  
them  in  one  after  another  (a
vague  circus  image  —  all  the  big  clowns  coming  out  of  the  little  
car   —  passed  across  his
consciousness  in  a  meteoric  flash;  years  later  he  would  use  the  same 
 image  in  a  book  called
The       Black  Rapids),  and  climbed  in  last,  after  ducking  another  
rock.  As  they  watched,  more
rocks flew down, most striking the pump housing and rebounding at crazy angles.

When  they  stopped  falling,  Bill  looked  out  and  saw  Henry  coming  down 
 the  ladder  again,
as  quick  as  he  could.   'G-G-Get  h-h-him!'  he  shouted  to  the  others.  
Richie,  Ben,  and  Mike
floundered  out  behind  Bill.  Richie  leaped  high  and  grabbed  Henry's  
ankle.  Henry  cursed  and
shook  his  leg  as  if  trying  to  kick  away  a  small  dog  with  big  
teeth  —  a  terrier,  perhaps,  or  a
Pekinese.  Richie  grabbed  a  rung,  scrabbled  up  even  higher,  and  
actually  did  manage  to  sink
his  teeth  into  Henry's  ankle.  Henry  screamed  and  pulled  himself  up  
quickly.  One  of  his
loafers came off and splashed into the water, where it sank with no ado at all.

'Bit me!' Henry was screaming. 'Bit me! Cocksucker bit me!'

'Yeah, good thing I had a tetanus shot this spring!' Richie flung at him.

'Bash  them!'  Henry  was  raving.  'Bash  them,  bomb  them  back  to  the  
stone  age,  bash  their
brains in!'

More  rocks  flew.  The  boys  backed  into  the  drain  again  quickly.  Mike  
was  struck on the
arm by a small rock and he held it tight, wincing, until the pain began to 
abate.

'It's a standoff,' Ben said. 'They can't get down and we can't get up.'

'We're  not  s-supposed  to  get  up,'  Bill  said  quietly,  'and  y-y-you  
all  know  it.  W-We're nuh-
hot e-ever supposed to g-g-get up a-again.'

They looked at him, their eyes hurt and afraid. No one said anything.


Henry's  voice,  fury  masquerading  as  mockery,  floated  down:  'We  can  
wait  up  here  all  day,
you guys!'

Beverly had turned  away  and  was  looking  back  along  the  bore  of  the  
inflow  pipe.  The  light
grew  diffuse  quickly,  and  she  could  not  see  much.  What  she  could  
see  was  a  concrete  tunnel,
its  lower  third  filled  with  rushing  water.  It  was  higher  on  her  now 
 than  it  had  been  when  they
first  squeezed  in  here,  she  realized;  that  would  be  because  this  
pump  wasn't  working  and  only
some  of  the  water  was  exiting  on  the  Kenduskeag  side.  She  felt  
claustrophobia  touch  her
throat,  turning  the  skin  there  to  something  that  felt  like  flannel.  
If  ht e  water  rose  enough,  they
would drown.

'Bill, do we have to?'

He  shrugged.  It  said  everything.  Yeah,  they  had  to;  what  else  was  
there?  Be  killed  by
Henry,  Victor,  and  Belch  in  the  Barrens?  Or  by  something  else   —  
maybe  something  worse

—  in  town?  She  understood  his  thought  well  enough  now;  there  was  no 
 stutter  in  his  shrug.
Better  for  them  to  go  to  It.  Have  it  out,  like  the  showdown  in  a  
Western  movie.  Cleaner.
Braver.

Richie said: 'What was that ritual you told us about, Big Bill? The one in the 
library book?'

'Ch-Ch-Chüd,' Bill said, smiling a little.

'Chüd.' Richie nodded. 'You bite Its tongue and It bites yours, right?'
'Ruh-ruh-right.'

'Then you tell jokes.'
Bill nodded.

'Funny,' Richie said, looking into the dark pipe, 'I can't think of a single 
one.'

'Me  either,'  Ben  said.  The  fear  was  heavy  in  his  chest,  almost  
suffocating.  He  felt  that  the
only  thing  keeping  him  from  just  sitting  down  in  the  water  and  
blubbering  like  a  baby — or
just  going  crazy  —  was  Bill's  calm,  sure  presence  .  .  .  and  
Beverly.  He  felt  he  would  rather
die than show Beverly how afraid he was.

'Do you know where this pipe goes?' Stan asked Bill.
Bill shook his head.

'Do you know how to find It?'

Bill shook his head again.

'We'll  know  when  we're  getting  close,'  Richie  said  suddenly.  He  drew  
a  deep,  trembling
breath. 'If we have to do it, then let's go.'

Bill  nodded.  'I'll  be  f-f-first.  Then  Eh-Eddie.  B-B-Ben.  Bev.  Stuh-han 
 the  M-M-Man.  M-
M-Mike.  You  luh-last,  Rih-Richie.  E-Everyone  k-k-keep  one  h-h-hand  on  
the  shuh-houlder
of the p-p-person in fruh-fruh-front of y-y-you. It's gonna be d-dark.'

'You coming out?' Henry Bowers shrieked down at them.
'We're gonna come out somewhere,' Richie muttered. 'I guess.'

They  formed  up  like  a  procession  of  blindmen.  Bill  looked  back  once, 
 confirming  that  each
had  a  hand  on  the  shoulder  of  the  person  ahead.  Then,  bending  
forward  slightly  against  the
rush  of  the  current,  Bill  Denbrough  led  his  friends  into  the  dark  
where  the  boat  he  had  made
for his brother had gone almost a year before.


C H A P T E R  2 0

The Circle Closes

1

Tom

Tom Rogan was having one fuck of a crazy dream. In it he was killing his 
father.

Part  of  his  mind  understood  how  crazy  this  was;  his  father  had  died 
when Tom was only in
the  third  grade.  Well  .  .  .  maybe  'died'  wasn't  such  a  good  word.  
Maybe  'committed  suicide'
was  actually  the  truth.  Ralph  Rogan  had  made  himself  a  gin-and-lye  
cocktail.  One  for  the
road,  you  might  say.  Tom  had  been  put  in  nominal  charge of his 
brother and sisters, and then
he began to receive 'whuppins' if anything went wrong with them.

So  he  couldn't  have  killed  his  father  .  .  .  except  there  he  was,  
in  this  frightening  dream,
holding  what  looked  like  a  harmless  handle  of  some  sort to his 
father's neck . . . only it wasn't
really  harmless,  was  it?  There  was  a  button  in  the  end  of  the  
handle,  and  if  he  pushed  it  a
blade would pop out and go right through his father's neck.  I'm not going to 
do anything like
that,  Daddy,  don't  worry,  his  dreaming  mind  thought  just  before  his  
finger  jammed  down  on
the  button  and  the  blade  popped  out.  His  father's  sleeping  eyes  
opened  and  stared  up  at  the
ceiling;  his  father's  mouth  opened  and  a  bloody  gargling  sound  came  
out.  Daddy,  I  didn't  do
it! his mind screamed. Someone else —

He  struggled  to  wake  up  and  couldn't.  The  best  he  could  do  (and  it 
 turned  out  to  be  not
very  good  at  all)  was  to  fade  into  a  new  dream.  In  this  one  he  
was  splashing  and  slogging  his
way  down  a  long  dark  tunnel.  His  balls  hurt  and  his  face  stung  
because  it  was  crisscrossed
with  scratches.  There  were  others  with  him,  but  he  could  only  make  
out  vague  shapes.  It
didn't  matter,  anyway.  What  mattered  were  the  kids  somewhere  up  
ahead.  They  needed  to
pay. They needed

(a whuppin)

to be punished.

Whatever  purgatory  this  was,  it  was  a  smelly  one.  Water  dripped  and  
echoed.  His  shoes
and  pants  were  soaked.  The  little  shitpots  were  somewhere  up  ahead  
in  this  maze  of  tunnels,
and perhaps they thought

(Henry)

Tom and his friends would get lost, but the joke was on them

(ha-ha all over you!)

because  he  had  another  friend,  oh  yes,  a  special  friend,  and  this  
friend  had  marked  the  path
they were to take with . . . with . . .

(Moon-Balloons)

thingamajigs  that  were  big  and  round  and  somehow  lighted  from  within  
so  that  they  shed  a
glow  like  that  which  falls  mysteriously  from  oldfashioned  streetlamps.  
One  of  these  balloons
floated  and  drifted  at  each  intersection,  and  on  the  side  of  each  
was  an  arrow,  pointing  the
way into the tunnel-branch he and

(Belch and Victor)

his  unseen  friends  were  to  take.  And  it  was  the  right  path, oh yes: 
he could hear the others
ahead,  their  splashing  progress  echoing  back,  the  distorted  murmurs  of 
 their  voices.  They
were  getting  closer,  catching  up.  And  when  they  did  .  .  .  Tom  
looked  down  and  saw  that  he
still had the switchknife in his hand.


For  a  moment  he  was  frightened  —  this  was  like  one  of  those  crazy  
astral  experiences  he
sometimes  read  about  in  the  weekly  tabloids,  when  your  spirit  left  
your  body  and  entered
someone else's. The shape of his body felt different to him, as if he were not 
Tom but

(Henry)

someone  else,  someone  younger.  He  began  to  fight  his  way  out  of  the 
 dream,  panicked,
and  then  a  voice  was  at lking to him, a soothing voice, whispering in his 
ear:  It doesn't matter
when this is, and it doesn't matter who you are. What matters is that Beverly 
is up there, she's
with them, my good friend, and do you know what? She's been doing something one 
hell of a
lot  worse  than  sneaking  smokes.  You  know  what?  She's  been  fucking  
her  old  friend  Bill
Denbrough! Yes indeed! She and that stuttering freak, going right at it! They —

That's a lie! he tried to scream. She wouldn't dare!
But he knew it was no lie. She had used a belt on his
(kicked me in the)

balls and run off and she now had cheated on him, the slutty

(child)

little   roundheels   bitch   had   actually   cheated   on   him,   and   oh   
dear   friends,   oh   good
neighbors,  she  was  going  to  get  the  whuppin  of  all  whuppins  —  first 
her and then Denbrough,
her  novel-writing friend.  And anyone who tried to get in his way, you could 
count them in for
a piece of the action, too.

He  stepped  up  his  pace,  although  the  breath  was  already  whistling  in 
 and  out  of his throat.
Up  ahead  he  could  see  another  luminous  circle  bobbing  in  the  
darkness  —  another  Moon-
Balloon.  He  could  hear  the  voices  of  the  people  ahead  of  him,  and  
the  fact  that  they  were
childish  voices  no  longer  bothered  him.  It  was  as  the  voice  said:  
it didn't matter  where, when
or who. Beverly was up there, and oh dear friends, oh good neighbors —

'Come  on,  you  guys,  move  your  asses,'  he  said,  and  it  didn't  even  
matter  that  his  voice
wasn't his own but the voice of a boy.

Then,  as  they  approached  the  Moon-Balloon,  he  looked  around  and  saw  
his  companions
for  the  first  time.  Both  of  them  were  dead.  One  was  headless.  The  
face  of  the  other  had  been
split open, as if by a great talon.

'We're  moving  as  fast  as  we  can,  Henry,'  the  boy  with  the  split  
face  said,  and  his  lips
moved  in  two  pieces,  grotesquely  out  of  sync  with  each  other,  and  
that  was  when  Tom
shrieked the dream to pieces and came back to himself, tottering on the brink 
of what felt like
some great empty space.

He  struggled  to  keep his  balance,  lost  it,  and  tumbled  to  the  floor. 
 The  floor  was  carpeted
but  the  fall  still  sent  a  sickening  burst  of  pain  through  his  hurt  
knee  and  he  Stifled  another  cry
against his forearm.

Where am I? Where the fuck am I?

He  became  aware  of  a  faint  but  clear  white  light,  and  for  a  
frightening  moment  he  thought
he was back in the dream again, that it was light cast by one of those crazy 
balloons. Then he
remembered  leaving  the  bathroom  door  partially  open  and  the  
fluorescent  light  in  there  on.
He    always  left  the  light  on  when  staying  in  a  strange  place;  it  
saved  you  barking  your  shins  if
you had to get up in the night to pee.

That  clicked  reality  into  place.  It  had  been  a  dream,  all  some  
crazy  dream.  He  was  in  a
Holiday  Inn.  This  was  Derry,  Maine.  He  had  chased  his  wife  here,  
and,  in  the  middle  of  a
crazy nightmare, he had fallen out of bed. That was all; that was the long and 
the short of it.

That wasn't just a nightmare.

He  jumped  as  if  the  words  had  been  spoken  beside  his  ear  instead  
of inside his own mind.
It didn't seem like his own interior voice at all  —  it was cold, alien . . . 
but somehow hypnotic
and believable.


He got up slowly, fumbled a glass of water off the table beside the bed, and 
drank it down.

He ran shaky hands through his hair. The clock on the table said ten past 
three.

Go back to sleep. Wait until morning.

That alien voice answered:  But  there  will  be  people  around  in  the  
morning  — too many
people. And besides, you can beat them down there this time. This time you can 
be first.

Down there? He thought of his dream: the water, the dripping dark.

The  light  suddenly  seemed  brighter.  He  turned  his  head,  not  wanting  
to  but  helpless  to
stop. A groan slipped out of his mouth. A balloon was tied to the knob  of the 
bathroom door.
It  floated  at  the  end  of  a  string  about  three  feet  long.  The  
balloon  glowed,  full  of  a  ghostly
white  light;  it  looked  like  a  will-o-the-wisp  glimpsed  in  a  swamp,  
floating  dreamily  between
trees  overhung  with  gray  ropes  of  moss.  An  arrow was printed on the 
balloon's gently bulging
skin, an arrow that was blood-scarlet.

It was pointing at the door leading out into the hall.

It  doesn't  really  matter  who  I  am,  the voice said soothingly, and Tom 
realized now that it
wasn't  coming  fr om  either  his  own  head  or  from  beside  his  ear;  it  
was  coming  from  the
balloon, from the center of that strange lovely white light.  All  that  
matters  is  that  I  am  going
to see that everything turns out to your satisfaction, Tom. I want to see her 
take a whuppin; I
want to see them all take a whuppin. They've crossed my path once too often . . 
. and much
too late in the day for them. So listen, Tom. Listen very carefully. All 
together now . . . follow
the bouncing ball . . .

Tom listened. The voice from the balloon explained.
It explained everything.

When it was done, it popped in one final flash of light and Tom began to dress.

2

Audra

Audra also had nightmares.

She  awoke  with  a  start,  sitting  bolt-upright  in  bed,  the  sheet  
pulled  around  he r waist, her
small breasts moving with her quick, agitated breathing.

Like  Tom's,  her  dreaming  had  been  a  jumbled,  distressful  experience.  
Like  Tom,  she  had

had  the  sensation  of  being  someone  else  —   or  rather,  of  having  her 
 own  consciousness
deposited  (and  partially  submerged)  in  another  body  and  another  mind.  
She  had  been  in  a
dark  place  with  a  number  of  others  around  her,  and  she  had  been  
aware  of  an  oppressive
sensation of danger  —  they  were  going  into  the  danger  deliberately  and 
 she  wanted  to  scream
at  them to stop, to explain to her what was happening . . . but the person 
with whom she had
merged seemed to know, and to believe it was necessary.

She  was  also  aware  that  they  were  being  chased,  and  that  their  
pursuers  were  catching  up,
little by little.

Bill  had  been  in  the  dream,  but  his  story  about  how  he  had  
forgotten  his  childhood  must
have  been  on  her  mind,  because  in  her  dream  Bill  was  only  a  boy,  
ten  or  twelve  years  old  —
he  still  had  all  his  hair!  She  was  holding  his  hand,  and  was  dimly 
 aware  that  she  loved  him
very  much,  and  that  her  willingness  to  go  on  was  based  on  the  
rock-solid  belief  that  Bill
would  protect  her  and  all  of  them,  that  Bill,  Big  Bill,  would  
somehow  bring  them  through  this
and back into the daylight again.

Oh but she was so terrified.

They  came  to  a  branching  of  many  tunnels  and  Bill  stood  there,  
looking  from  one  to  the
next,  and  one  of  the  others  —  a  boy  with  his  arm  in  a  cast  which 
 glimmered  a  ghostly-white
in the darkness — spoke up: That one, Bill. The bottom one.'


'Y-Y-You're s-s-sure?'
'Yes.'

And  so  they  had  gone  that  way  and  then  there  had  been  a  door,  a  
wee  wooden  door  no
more  than  three  feet  high,  the  sort  of  door  you  might  see  in  a 
fairytale  book,  and  there  had
been  a  mark  on  the  door.  She  could  not  remember  what  that  mark  had 
 been,  what  strange
rune  or  symbol.  But  it  had  brought  all  her  terror  to  a  
focusing-point  and  she  had  yanked
herself out of that other body, that girl's body, whoever

(Beverly — Beverly)

she  might  have  been.  She  awoke  bolt-upright  in  a  strange  bed,  
sweaty,  wide-eyed, gasping
as  if  she  had  just  run  a  race.  Her  hands  flew  to  her  legs,  
half-expecting  to  find  them  wet  and
cold with the water she had been walking through in her head. But she was dry.

Disorientation  followed —  this  was  not  their  home  in  Topanga  Canyon  
or  the  rented  house
in Fleet. It was noplace — limbo furnished with a bed, a dresser, two chairs, 
and a TV.

'Oh God, come on, Audra — '

She  scrubbed  her  hands  viciously  across  her  face  and  that  sickening  
feeling  of  mental
vertigo  receded.  She  was  in  Derry.  Derry,  Maine,  where  her  husband  
had  grown  through  a
childhood  he  claimed  no  longer  to  remember.  Not  a  familiar  place  to  
her,  or  a  particularly
good  place  by  its  feel,  but  at  least  a  known  place. She  was  here  
because  Bill  was  here,  and
she  would  see  him  tomorrow,  at  the  Derry  Town  House.  Whatever  
terrible  thing  was  wrong
here,  whatever  those  new  scars  on  his  hands  meant,  they  would  face  
it  together.  She  would
call him, tell him she was here, then join him. After that . . . well . . .

Actually,  she  had  no  idea  what  came  after  that.  The  vertigo,  that  
sense  of  being  in  a  place

that  was  really  noplace,  was  threatening  again.  When  she  was  nineteen 
 she  had  done  a
whistle-stop    tour    with    a    scraggy    little    production    
company,    forty    not-so-wonderful
performances  of  Arsenic  and  Old  Lace  in  forty  not-so-wonderful  towns  
and  small  cities.  All
of  this  in  forty-seven  not-so-wonderful  days.  They  began  at  the  
Peabody  Dinner  Theater  in
Massachusetts  and  ended  at  Play  It  Again  Sam  in  Sausalito.  And  
somewhere  in  between,  in
some  Midwestern  town  like  Ames  Iowa  or  Grand  Isle  Nebraska  or  maybe  
Jubilee  North
Dakota,  she  had  awakened  like  this  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  
panicked  by  disorientation,
unsure  what  town  she  was  in,  what  day  it  was,  or  why  she  was  
wherever  she  was.  Even  her
name seemed unreal to her.

That feeling was back now. Her bad dreams had carried over into her waking and 
she felt a
nightmarish  free-floating  terror.  The  town  seemed  to  have  wrapped  
itself  around  her  like  a
python.  She  could  sense  it,  and  the  feelings  it  produced  were  not  
good.  She  found  herself
wishing that she had heeded Freddie's advice and stayed away.

Her  mind  fixed  on  Bill,  grasping  at  the  thought  of  him  the  way  a  
drowning  woman would
grip at a spar, a life-preserver, anything that

(we all float down here, Audra)

floats.

A  chill  raced  through  her  and  she  crisscrossed  her  arms  across  her  
naked  breasts.  She
shivered  and  saw  goosebumps  ripple  their  way  up  her  flesh.  For  a  
moment  it  seemed  to  her
that a voice had spoken aloud, but inside her head. As if there was an alien 
presence in there.

Am I going crazy? God, is that it?

No,  her  mind  responded.  It's  just  disorientation  .  .  .  jet-lag  .  .  
.  worry  over  your  man.

Nobody's talking inside your head. Nobody —

'We all float down here, Audra,' a voice said from the bathroom. It was a real 
voice, real as
houses.  And  sly.  Sly  and  duty  and  evil.  'You'll  float,  too.'  The  
voice  uttered  a  fruity  little
giggle  that  dropped  in  pitch  until  it  sounded  like  a  clogged  drain  
bubbling  thickly.  Audra
cried out . . . then pressed her hands against her mouth.

I didn't hear that.


She  said  it  out  loud,  daring  the  voice  to  contradict  her.  It  
didn't.  The  room  was  silent.

Somewhere, far away, a train whistled in the night.

Suddenly  she  needed  Bill  so  badly  that  waiting  until  daylight  seemed  
impossible.  She  was
in  a  standardized  motel  room  exactly  like  the  other  thirty-nine  units 
 in  the  place,  but  suddenly
it  was  too  much.  Everything.  When  you  started  hearing  voices,  it  was 
 just  too  much.  Too
creepy.  She  seemed  to  be  slipping  back  into  the  nightmare  she'd  so  
lately  escaped.  She  felt
scared  and  terribly  alone.  It's  worse  than  that,   she thought.  I feel 
dead.  Her heart suddenly
skipped two beats in her chest, making her gasp and utter a startled cough. She 
felt an instant
of   prison-panic,  claustrophobia  inside  her  own  body,  and  wondered  if  
all  this  terror  didn't


have  a  stupidly  ordinary  physical  root  after  all:  maybe  she  was  
going  ot
Or was already having one.

Her heart settled, but uneasily.

have  a  heart  attack.

Audra  turned  on  the  light  by  the  bed-table and looked at her watch. 
Twelve past three. He
would  be  sleeping,  but  that  didn't  matter  to  her  now  —  nothing  
mattered  except hearing his
voice.  She  wanted  to  finish  the  night  with  him.  If  Bill  was  beside  
her,  her  clockwork  would
fall  in  sync  with  his  and  settle  down.  The  nightmares  would  stay  
away.  He  sold  nightmares  to
others  —  that  was  his  trade  —  but to her he had never given anything but 
peace. Outside that
odd  cold  nut  imbedded  in  his  imagination,  peace  seemed  to  be  all  he 
 was  made  for  or  meant
for. She got the Yellow Pages, found the number for the Derry Town House, and 
dialed it.

'Derry Town House.'

'Would you please ring Mr Denbrough's room? Mr William Denbrough?'

'Does  that  guy  ever  get  any  calls  in  the  daytime?'  the  clerk  said,  
and  before  she  could  think
to  ask  what  that  was  supposed  to  mean,  he  had  plugged  her  call  
through.  The  phone  burred
once,  twice,   three  times.  She  could  imagine  him,  sleeping  with  
everything  under  the  covers
except the top of his head; she could imagine one hand coming out, feeling for 
the phone. She
had seen him do it before, and a fond little smile touched her lips. It faded 
as the  phone rang a
fourth  time  .  .  .  and  a  fifth,  and  a  sixth.  Halfway  through  the  
seventh  ring,  the  connection  was
broken.

'That room does not answer.'

'No  shit,  Sherlock,'  Audra  said,  more  upset  and  frightened  than  ever. 
 'Are  you  sure  you
rang the right room?'

'Ayup,'  the  clerk  said.  'Mr  Denbrough  had  an  inter-room  call  'not  
five  minutes ago. I know
he  answered  that  one,  because  the  light  stayed  on  the  switchboard  a  
minute  or  two.  He  must
have gone to the person's room.'

'Well, which room was it?'

'I don't remember. Sixth floor, I think. But — '

She  dropped  the  phone  back  into  its  cradle.  A  queer  disheartening  
certainty  came  to  her.  It
was  a  woman.  Some  woman  had  called  him  .  .  .  and  he  had  gone  to  
her.  Well,  what  now,
Audra? How do we handle this?

She  felt  tears  threaten.  They  stung  her  eyes  and  her  nose;  she  
could  feel  the  lump  of  a  sob
in  the  back  of  her  throat.  No  anger,  at  least  not  yet  .  .  .  only 
 a  sick  sense  of  loss  and
abandonment.

Audra, get hold of yourself. You're jumping to conclusions. It's the middle of 
the night and
you had a bad dream and now you've got Bill with some other woman. But it ain't 
necessarily
so. What you're going to do is sit up  — you'll never get back to sleep now 
anyway. Turn on
some lights and finish the novel you brought to read on the plane. Remember 
what Bill says?
Finest  kind  of  dope.  Book-Valium.  No  more  heebie-jeebies.  No  more  
whim-whams  and
hearing  voices.  Dorothy  Sayers  and  Lord  Peter,  that's  the  ticket.  The 
Nine Tailors. That'll
take you through to dawn. That'll —


The  bathroom  light  suddenly  went  on;  she  could  see  it  under  the  
door.  Then  the  latch
clicked  and  the  door  juddered  open.  She  stared  at  this,  eyes  
widening,  arms  instinctively
crossing  over  her  breasts  again.  Her  heart  began  to  slam against her 
ribcage and the sour taste
of adrenaline flooded her mouth.

That  voice,  low  and  dragging,  said:  'We  all  float  down  here,  Audra.' 
 The  last  word  became
a  long,  low,  fading  scream  —  Audraaaaa  —  that  ended  once  again  in  
that  sick,  clogged,
bubbly sound that was so much like laughter.

'Who's  there?'  she  cried,  backing  away.  That  wasn't  my  imagination,  
no  way,  you're  not
going to tell me that —

The  TV  clicked  on.  She  whirled  around  and  saw  a  clown  in  a  silvery 
 suit  with  big  orange
buttons  capering  around  on  the  screen.  There  were  black  sockets  where 
 its  eyes  should  have
been,  and  when  its  madeup  lips  stretched  even  wider  in  a  grin,  she  
saw  teeth  like  razors.  It
held  up  a  dripping,  severed  head.  Its  eyes  were  turned  up  to  the  
whites  and the mouth sagged
open,  but  she  could  see  well  enough  that  it  was  Freddie  Firestone's  
head.  The  clown  laughed
and  danced.  It  swung  the  head  around  and  drops  of  blood  splashed  
against  the  inside  of  the
TV screen. She could hear them sizzling in there.

Audra  tried  to  scream  and  nothing  came  out  but  a  little  whine.  She  
grabbed  blindly  for  the
dress lying over the back of the chair, and for her purse. She bolted into the 
hall and slammed
the  door  behind  her,  gasping,  her  face  paper-white.  She  dropped  the  
purse between her feet
and slipped the dress over her head.

'Float,'  a  low,  chuckling  voice  said  from  behind  her,  and  she  felt  
a  cold  finger  caress  her
bare heel.

She  uttered  another  high  out-of-breath  scream  and  danced  away  from  
the  door.  White
corpse-fingers  were  seeking  back  and  forth  under  it,  the  nails  peeled 
 away  to  show  purplish-
white  bloodless  quicks.  They  made  hoarse  whispering  noises  on  the  
rough  nap  of  the  hall
carpet.

Audra  snagged  the  strap  of  her  purse  and  ran  barefooted  for  the  
door  at  the  end  of  the
corridor.  She  was  in  a  blind  panic  now,  her  only  thought  that  she  
had  to  find  the  Derry  Town
House,  and  Bill.  It  didn't  matter  if  he  was  in  bed  with  enough  
other  women  to  make  up  a
harem.  She  would  find  him  and  get  him  to  take  her  away  from  
whatever  unspeakable  thing
there was in this town.

She  fled  down  the  walkway  and  into  the  parking-lot, looking around 
wildly for her car. For
a  moment  her  mind  froze  and  she  couldn't  even  remember  what  she  had 
 been  driving.  Then  it
came:   Datsun,   tobacco-brown.   She   spotted   it   standing   hubcapdeep   
in   the   still,   curdled
groundmist,  and  hurried  over  to  it.  She  couldn't  find  the  keys  in  
her  purse.  She  swept  through
it         with   steadily   increasing   panic,   shuffling   Kleenex,   
cosmetics,   change,   sun-glasses,   and
sticks  of  gum  into  a  meaningless  jumble.  She  didn't  notice  the  
battered  LTD  wagon  parked
nose-to-nose  with  her  rented  car,  or  the  man  sitting  behind  the  
wheel.  She  didn't  notice  when
the    LTD's  door  opened  and  the  man  got  out;  she  was  trying  to  
cope  with  the  growing
certainty  that  she  had  left  the  Datsun's  keys  in  the  room.  She  
couldn't  go  back  in  there;  she
couldn't.

Her  fingers  touched  hard  serrated  metal  under  a  box  of  Altoid  mints  
and  she  seized  at  it

with  a  little  cry  of  triumph.  For  a  terrible  moment  she  thought  it  
might  be  the  key  to  their
Rover,  now  sitting  in  the  Fleet  railway  station's  car-park  three  
thousand  miles  away,  and  then
she  felt  the  lucite  rental-car  tab.  She  fumbled  the  key  into  the  
door-lock,  breathing  in  harsh
little  gasps,  and  turned  it.  That  was  when  a  hand  fell  on  her  
shoulder,  and  she  screamed  .  .  .
screamed loudly this time. Somewhere a dog barked in answer, but that was all.

The  hand,  as  hard  as  steel,  bit  cruelly  in  and  forced  her  around.  
The  face  she  saw  looming
over   hers  was  puffed  and  lumpy.  The  eyes  glittered.  When  the  
swelled  lips  spread  in  a


grotesque  smile,  she  saw  that  some  of  the  man's  front  teeth  had  
been  broken.  The  stumps
looked jagged and savage.

She tried to speak and could not. The hand squeezed tighter, digging in.
'Haven't I seen you in the movies?' Tom Rogan whispered.

3

Eddie's Room

Beverly  and  Bill  dressed  quickly,  without  speaking,  and  went  up  to  
Eddie's  room.  On  their
way  to  the  elevator  they  heard  a  phone-bell  begin  somewhere  behind  
them.  It was muffled, a
somewhere-else sound.

'Bill, was that yours?'

'C-Could  have  b-b-been,'  he  said.  'One  of  the  uh-others  c-calling,  
muh-haybe.' He punched
the UP button.

Eddie  opened  the  door  for  them,  his  face  white  and  strained.  His  
left  arm  was at an angle
both peculiar and weirdly evocative of old times.

'I'm  okay,'  he  said.  'I  took  two  Darvon.  Pain's  not  bad  right  now.' 
 But  it  was  clearly  not
good,  either.  His  lips,  pressed  so  tightly  together  they  had  almost  
disappeared,  were  purple
with shock.

Bill  looked  past  him  and  saw  the  body  on  the  floor.  One  look  was  
enough  to  satisfy  him  of
two things  —  it was Henry Bowers, and he was dead. He moved past Eddie and 
knelt by the
body.  The  neck  of  a  Perrier  bottle  had  been  driven  into  Henry's  
midsection, pulling the tatters
of  his  shirt  in  after  it.  Henry's  eyes  were  half-open,  glazed.  His  
mouth,  filled  with  coagulating
blood, snarled. His hands were claws.

A  shadow  fell  over  him  and  Bill  looked  up.  It  was  Beverly.  She  
looked  down  at  Henry
with no expression at all.

'All the times he ch-ch-chased us,' Bill said.

She nodded. 'He doesn't look old. You know that, Bill? He doesn't look old at 
all.' Abruptly
she looked back at Eddie, who was sitting on the bed.  Eddie looked old; old 
and haggard. His
arm lay in his lap, useless. 'We've got to call the doctor for Eddie.'

'No,' Bill and Eddie said in unison.
'But he's hurt! His arm — '

'It's  the  same  as  luh-luh-last  t-t-time,' Bill said. He got to his feet 
and held her by the arms,
looking into her face. 'Once we g-go outside . . . once w-w-we ih-inv-v-holve 
the t-t-town — '

They'll  arrest  me  for  murder,'  Eddie  said  dully.  'Or  they'll  arrest  
all  of  us.  Or  they'll  detain
us.  Or  something.  Then  there'll  be  an  accident.  One  of  the  special 
accidents that only happen
in  Derry.  Maybe  they'll  stick  us  in  jail  and  a  deputy  sheriff  will  
go  berserk  and  shoot  us  all.
Maybe we'll all die of ptomaine, or decide to hang ourselves in our cells.'

'Eddie, that's crazy! That's — '

'Is it?' he asked. 'Remember, this is Derry.'

'But we're grownups now! Surely you don't think . . . I mean, he came here in 
the middle of
the night . . . attacked you . . . '

'W-With what?' Bill said. 'Where's the nuh-nuh-knife?'

She looked around, didn't see it, and dropped on her knees to look under the 
bed.

'Don't  bother,'  Eddie  said  in  that  same  faint,  whistly  voice.  'I  
slammed  the  door  on  his  arm
when he tried to stick me with it. He dropped it and I kicked it under the TV. 
It's gone now. I
already looked.'

'B-B-Beheverly, c-call the others,' Bill said. 'I can spuh-splint E-E-Eddie's 
arm, I th-hink.'


She looked at him for a long moment, then she looked down at the body on the 
floor again.
She  thought  that  the  picture  this  room  presented  should  tell  a  
perfectly  clear  story  to  any
policeman  with  half  a  brain.  The  place  was  a  mess.  Eddie's  arm  was  
broken.  This  man  was
dead.    It  was  a  clear  case  of  self-defense  against  a  night-prowler. 
And then she remembered
Mr  Ross.  Mr  Ross  getting  up  and  looking  and  then  simply  folding  his 
 newspaper  and  going
back into the house.

Once we go outside . . . once we involve the town . . .

That  made  her  remember  Bill  as  a  kid,  his  face  white  and  tired  and 
 half-crazy,  Bill  saying
Derry is It. Do you understand me? . . . Any place we go . . . when It gets us, 
they won't see,
they  won't  hear,  they won't know. Don't you see how it is? All we can do is 
to try and finish
what we started.

Standing  here  now,  looking  down  at  Henry's  corpse,  Beverly  thought: 
They're both saying
we've all become ghosts again. That it's started to repeat. All of it. As a kid 
I could accept
that, because kids almost are ghosts. But —

'Are you sure?' she asked desperately. 'Bill, are you sure?'

He  was  sitting  on  the  bed  with  Eddie,  gently  touching  his  arm.  
'A-A-Aren't  y-you?'  he
asked. 'After a-a-all that's huh-happened t-today?'

Yes.  All  that  had  happened.  The  gruesome  mess  at  the  end  of  their  
reunion.  The  beautiful
old woman who had turned into a crone before her eyes,

(my fodder was also my mudder)

the  round  of  stories  at  the  library  tonight  with  the  accompanying  
phenomena.  All  of  those
things.  And  still  .  .  .  her  mind  shouted  at  her  desperately  to  
stop  this  now,  to  spike  it  with

sanity,  because  if  she  did  not  ht ey  were  surely  going  to  finish  up 
 this  night  by  going  down  to

the Barrens and finding a certain pumping-station and —

'I don't know,' she said. 'I just . . . I don't know. Even after everything 
that's happened, Bill,
it seems to me that we could call the police. Maybe.'

'C-C-Call the uh-others,' he said again. 'We'll s-s-see what they th-think '
'All right.'

She  called  Richie  first,  then  Ben.  Both  agreed  to  come  right  away.  
Neither  asked  what  had

happened.  She  found  Mike's  telephone  number  in  the  book  and  dialed  
it.  There  was  no
answer; after a dozen rings she hung up.

'T-T-Try  the  luh-luh-hibrary,'  Bill  said.  He  had  taken  the  short  
curtain  rods  down  from  the
smaller  of  the  two  windows  in  Eddie's  room  and  was  binding  them  
firmly  to  Eddie's  arm  with
the belt of his bathrobe and the drawstring from his pyjamas.

Before  she  could  find  the  number  there  was  a  knock  at  the  door.  
Ben  and  Richie  had
arrived  together,  Ben  in  jeans  and  an  untucked  shirt,  Richie  in  a  
pair  of  smart  gray  cotton
trousers and his pyjama top. His eyes looked warily around the room from behind 
his glasses.

'Christ, Eddie, what happened to — '

^Oh my God!' Ben cried. He had seen Henry on the floor.

'B-B-Be quh-hiet!' Bill said sharply. 'And close th-the d-door!'
Richie did it, his eyes fixed on the body. 'Henry?'

Ben  took  three  steps  toward  the  corpse  and  then  stopped,  as  if  
afraid  it  might  bite  him.  He

looked helplessly at Bill.

Y-Y-You   t-tell,'  he  said  to  Eddie.  'G-G-Goddam  stuh-huh-hutter  is  
g-getting  wuh-wuh-
worse  all  the  t-t-time.'  Eddie  sketched  in  what  had  happened  while  
Beverly  hunted  up  the
number for  the  Derry  Public  Library  and  called  it.  She  expected  that  
perhaps  Mike  had  fallen
asleep there  —  he  might  even  have  a  bunk  in  his  office.  What  she  
did  not  expect  was  what
happened:  the  phone  was  picked  up  on  the  second  ring  and  a  voice  
she  had  never  heard
before said hello.


'Hello,'  she  answered,  looking  toward  the  others  and  making  a  
shushing  gesture  with  one
hand. 'Is Mr Hanlon there?'

'Who's this?' the voice asked.

She  wet  her  lips  with  her  tongue.  Bill  was  looking  at  her  
piercingly.  Ben  and  Richie  had
looked around. The beginnings of real alarm stirred inside her.

'Who are you?' she countered. 'You're not Mr Hanlon.'

'I'm  Derry  Chief  of  Police  Andrew  Rademacher,'  the  voice  said.  'Mr  
Hanlon  is  at  the  Derry
Home  Hospital  right  now.  He  was  assaulted  and  badly  wounded  a  short  
time  ago.  Now  who
are you, please? I want your name.'

But  she  barely  heard  this  last.  Waves  of  shock  rode  through  her,  
lifting  her  dizzily  up  and
up,  outside  of  herself.  The  muscles  in  her  stomach  and  legs  and  
crotch  all  went  loose  and
numb, and she thought in a detached way:  This must be how it happens, when 
people get so
scared they wet their pants. Sure. You just lose control of those muscles  —

'How badly has he been hurt?' she heard herself asking in a papery voice, and 
then Bill was
beside  her,  his  hand  on  her  shoulder,  and  Ben  was  there,  and  
Richie,  and  she  felt  such  a  rush
of gratitude for  them.  She  held  her  free  hand  out  and  Bill  took  it.  
Richie  placed  his  hand  over
Bill's  and  Ben  put  his  over  Richie's.  Eddie  had  come  over,  and  now  
he  put  his  good  hand  on
top.

'I  want  your  name,  please,'  Rademacher  said  briskly,  and  for  a  
moment  the  skittering little
craven  inside  of  her,  the  one  that  had  been  bred  by  her  father  and 
 cared  for  by  her  husband,
almost answered:  I'm Beverly Marsh and I'm at the Derry Town House. Please 
send Mr Nell
over. There's a dead man here who's still half a boy and we're all very 
frightened.

She said: 'I . . . I'm afraid I can't tell you. Not just yet.'
'What do you know about this?'

'Nothing,' she said, shocked. 'What makes you think I do? Jesus Christ!'

'You  just  make  a  habit  of  calling  the  library  every  morning  about  
three-thirty,' Rademacher
said,  'is  that  it?  Can  the  bullshit,  young  lady.  This  is  assault,  
and  the  way  the  guy  looks,  it
could be murder by the time the sun comes up. I'll ask you again: who are you 
and how much
do you know about this?'

Closing  her  eyes,  gripping  Bill's  hand  with  all  her  strength,  she  
asked  again:  'He  might  die?

You're not just saying that to scare me? He really might die? Please tell me.'

'He's  very  badly  hurt.  And  if  that  doesn't  scare  you,  miss,  it  
ought  to.  Now I want to know
who you are and why — '

As if in a dream she watched her hand float through space and drop the phone 
back into the

cradle.  She  looked  over  at  Henry  and  felt  shock  as  keen  as  a  slap  
from  a  cold  hand.  One  of
Henry's eyes had closed. The other one, the shattered one, oozed as nakedly as 
before.

Henry seemed to be winking at her.

4

Richie  called  the  hospital.  Bill  led  Beverly  over  to  the  bed,  where  
she  sat  with  Eddie,  looking
off  into  space.  She  thought  she  would  cry,  but  no  tears  came.  The  
only  feeling  she  was
strongly  and  immediately  aware  of  was  a  wish  that  someone  would  
cover  Henry  Bowers.
That winky look was really not cool at all.

In one giddy instant Richie became a reporter from the Derry  News. He 
understood that Mr
Michael  Hanlon,  the  town's  head  librarian,  had  been  assaulted  while  
working  late.  Did  the
hospital have any word on Mr Hanlon's condition?

Richie listened, nodding.


'I  understand,  Mr  Kerpaskian  —  do  you  spell  that  with  two  k's?  You  
do.  Okay.  And  you
are — '

He  listened,  now  enough  into  his  own  fiction  to  make  doodling  
motions  with  one  finger,  as
if writing on a pad.

'Uh-huh  .  .  .  uh-huh . . . yes. Yes, I understand. Well, what we usually do 
in cases like this
is  to  quote  you  as  "a  source."  Then,  later  on,  we  can  .  .  .  
uh-huh . . . right! Just right!' Richie
laughed  heartily  and  armed  a  film  of  sweat  from  his  forehead.  He  
listened  again.  'Okay,  Mr
Kerpaskian.  Yes.  I'll  .  .  .  yes,  I  got  it,  K-E-R-P-A-S-K-I-A-N,  
right!  Czech-Jewish,  is  it?
Really! That's . . . that's most unusual. Yes, I will. Goodnight. Thank you.'

He hung up and closed his eyes. 'Jesus!' he cried in a thick, low voice. 
'Jesus! Jesus! Jesus!'
He  made  as  if to  shove  the  phone  off  the  table  and  then  simply  let 
 his  hand  fall.  He  took  his
glasses off and wiped them on his pyjama top.

'He's  alive,  but  in  grave  condition,'  he  told  the  others.  'Henry  
sliced  him  up  like  a  Christmas
turkey.  One  of  the  cuts  chopped  into  his  femoral  artery  and  he's  
lost  all  the  blood  a  man  can
and  still  stay  alive.  Mike  managed  to  get  some  kind  of  tourniquet  
on  it,  or  he  would  have
been dead when they found him.'

Beverly  began  to  cry.  She  did  it  like  a  child,  with  both  hands  
plastered  to  her  face.  For  a
little  while  her  hitching  sobs  and  the  rapid  whistle  of  Eddie's  
breathing  were  the  only  sounds
in the room.

'Mike  wasn't  the  only  one  who  got  sliced  up  like  a  Christmas  
turkey,'  Eddie  said  at  last.
'Henry looked like he just went twelve rounds with Rocky Balboa in a 
Cuisinart.'

'D-Do you still w-w-want to g-g-go to the p-p-police, Bev?'

There were Kleenex on the nighttable but they were a caked and sodden mass in 
the middle
of  a  puddle  of  Perrier.  She  went  into  the  bathroom,  making  a  wide  
circle  around  Henry,  got  a
wash-cloth,  and  ran  cool  wate r  on  it.  It  felt  delicious  against  her 
 hot  puffy  face.  She  felt  that
she   could   think   clearly   again   —   not   rationally   but   clearly.   
She   was   suddenly   sure   that
rationality  would  kill  them  if  they  tried  to  use  it  now.  That  cop.  
Rademacher.  He  had  been
suspicious.  Why  not?  People  didn't  call  the  library  at  three-thirty  
in  the  morning.  He  had
assumed  some  guilty  knowledge.  What  would  he  assume  if  he  found  out  
that  she  had  called
him  from  a  room  where  there  was  a  dead  man  on  the  floor  with  a  
jagged  bottle-neck  planted
in  his  guts?  That  she  and  four  other  strangers  had  just  come  into  
town  the  day  before  for  a
little  reunion  and  this  guy  just  happened  to  drop  by?  Would  she  buy 
 the  tale  if  the  shoe  were
on  the  other  foot?  Would  anyone?  Of  course,  they  could  buttress  
their tale by adding that they
had  come  back  to  finish  the  monster  that  lived  in  the  drains  under  
the  city.  That  would
certainly add a convincing note of gritty realism.

She  came  out  of  the  bathroom  and  looked  at  Bill.  'No,'  she  said.  
'I  don't  want  to  go to the
police.  I  think  Eddie's  right   —  something  might  happen  to  us.  
Something  final.  But  that  isn't
the  real  reason.'  She  looked  at  the  four  of  them.  'We  swore  it,'  
she  said.  'We  swore.  Bill's
brother . . . Stan . . . all the others . . . and now Mike. I'm ready, Bill.'

Bill looked at the others.

Richie nodded. 'Okay, Big Bill. Let's try.'

Ben said, 'The odds look worse than ever. We're two short now.'
Bill said nothing.

'Okay.' Ben nodded. 'She's right. We swore.'

'E-E-Eddie?'

Eddie  smiled  wanly.  'I  guess  I  get  another  pigger-back  down  that  
ladder,  huh?  If  the
ladder's still there.'

'No one throwing rocks this time, though,' Beverly said. 'They're dead. All 
three of them.'
'Do we do it now, Bill?' Richie asked.

'Y-Y-Yes,' Bill said. 'I th-think this is the t-t-time.'


'Can I say something?' Ben asked abruptly.

Bill looked at him and grinned a little. 'A-A-Any time.'

'You  guys  are  still  the  best  friends  I  ever  had,'  Ben  said.  'No  
matter  how  this  turns  out.  I
just . . . you know, wanted to tell you that.'

He looked around at them, and they looked solemnly back at him.

'I'm  glad  I  remembered  you,'  he  added.  Richie  snorted.  Beverly  
giggled.  Then  they  were  all
laughing,  looking  at  each  other  in  the  old  way,  in  spite  of  the  
fact  that  Mike  was  in  the
hospital,  perhaps  dying  or  already  dead,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  
Eddie's  arm  was  broken
(again), in spite of the fact that it was the deepest ditch of the morning.

'Haystack,  you  have  such  a  way  with  words,'  Richie  said,  laughing  
and  wiping  his  eyes.

'He should have been the writer, Big Bill.'

Still smiling a little, Bill said: 'And on that nuh-nuh-note — '

5

They  took  Eddie's  borrowed  limo.  Richie  drove.  The  groundfog  was  
thicker  now,  drifting
through  the  streets  like  cigarette  smoke,  not  quite  reaching  the  
hooded  streetlamps.  The  stars
overhead  were  bright  chips  of  ice,  spring  stars  .  but  by  cocking  
his  head  to  the  half-open
window  on  the  passenger  side,  Bill  thought  he  could  hear  summer  
thunder  in  the  distance.
Ram was being ordered up somewhere over the horizon.

Richie  turned  on  the  radio  and  there  was  Gene  Vincent  singing  
'Be-Bop-A-Lula.'  He  hit
one  of  the  other  buttons  and  got  Buddy  Holly.  A  third  punch  brought 
 Eddie  Cochran  singing
'Summertime Blues.'

'I'd like to help you, son, but you're too young to vote,' a deep voice said.
'Turn it off, Richie,' Beverly said softly.

He  reached  for  it,  and  then  his  hand  froze.  'Stay  tuned  for  more  
of  the  Richie  Tozier  All-
Dead  Rock  Show!'  the  clown's  laughing,  screaming  voice  cried  over  the 
 finger-pops   and
guitar-chops  of  the  Eddie  Cochran  tune.  'Don't  touch  that  dial,  keep  
it  tuned  to  the  rockpile,
they're  gone  from  the  charts  but  not  from  our  hearts  and  you  keep  
coming,  come  right  along,
come  on  everybody! We play  aaaalll  the hits down here!  Aaallllll  the 
hits! And if you don't
believe   me,   just   listen   to   this   morning's   graveyard-shift  guest  
deejay,  Georgie  Denbrough!
Tell em, Georgie!'

And suddenly Bill's brother was wailing out of the radio.

'You sent me out and It killed me! I thought It was in the cellar, Big Bill, I 
thought It was in
the cellar but It was in the drain, It was in the drain and It killed me, you 
let It kill me, Big
Bill, you let It —

Richie snapped the radio off so hard the knob spun away and hit the floormat.

'Rock  and  roll  in  the  sticks  really  sucks,'  he  said.  His  voice  was  
not  quite  steady.  'Bev's
right, we'll leave it off, what do you say?'

No  one  replied.  Bill's  face  was  pale  and  still  and  thoughtful under 
the glow of the passing

streetlamps, and when the thunder muttered again in the west they all heard it.

6

In the Barrens

Same old bridge.

Richie  parked  beside  it  and  they  got  out  and  moved  to  the  railing  
—  same  old  railing  —
and looked down.


Same old Barrens.

It  seemed  untouched  by  the  last  twenty-seven  years;  to  Bill  the  
turnpike  overpass,  which
was  the  only  new  feature,  looked  unreal,  something  as  ephemeral  as  a 
 matte  painting  or  a
rear-screen  projection  effect  in  a  movie.  Cruddy  little  trees  and  
scrub  bushes  glimmered  in
the  twining  fog  and  Bill  thought:  I  guess  this  is  what  we  mean  
when  we  talk  about  the
persistence of memory, this or something like this, something you see at the 
right time and
from    the right angle, image that kicks off emotion like a jet engine. You 
see it so clear that all
the things which happened in between are gone. If desire is what closes the 
circle between
world and want, then the circle has closed.

'Cuh-Cuh-Come  on,'  he  said,  and  climbed  over  the  railing.  They  
followed  him  down  the
embankment  in  a  scatter  of  scree  and  pebbles.  When  they  reached  the  
bottom  Bill  checked
automatically  for  Silver  and  then  laughed  at  himself.  Silver  was  
leaning  against  the  wall  of
Mike's  garage.  It  seemed  Silver  had  no  pan  to  play  in  this  at  all, 
 although  that  was  strange,
after the way it had turned up.

Tuh-Take us there,' Bill told Ben.

Ben  looked  at  him  and  Bill  read  the  thought  in  his  eyes  —  It's  
been  twenty-seven years,
Bill, dream on — and then he nodded and headed into the undergrowth.

The  path  —  their  path  —  had  long  since  grown  over,  and  they  had  
to  force  themselves
through   tangles   of   thornbushes,   prickers,   and   wild   hydrangea   so 
  fragrant   it   was   cloying.
Crickets   sang   somnolently   all   around   them,   and   a   few   
lightning-bugs,   early   arrivals   at
summer's  luscious  party,  poked  at  the  dark.  Bill  supposed  kids  still  
played  down  here,  but
they  had made their own runs and secret ways.

They  came  to  the  clearing  where  the  clubhouse  had  been,  but  now  
there  was  no  clearing
here at all. Bushes and lackluster scrub pines had reclaimed it all.

'Look,'  Ben  whispered,  and  crossed  the  clearing  (in  their  memories  it 
 was  still  here,  simply
overlaid   with   another   of   those   matte   paintings).   He   yanked   at 
  something.   It   was   the
mahogany  door  they  had  found  on  the  edge  of  the  dump,  the  one  they 
 had  used  to  finish  off
the  clubhouse  roof.  It  had  been  cast  aside  here  and  looked  as  if  
it  hadn't  been  touched  in  a
dozen years or more. Creepers were firmly entrenched across its dirty surface.

'Leave it alone, Haystack,' Richie murmured. 'It's old.'

'Tuh-Tuh-Take us th-there, B-Ben,' Bill repeated from behind them.

So  they  went  down  to  the  Kenduskeag  following  him,  bearing  left  away 
 from  the  clearing
that  didn't  exist  anymore.  The  sound  of  running  water  grew  steadily  
louder,  but  they  still
almost  fell  into  the  Kenduskeag  before  any  of  them  saw  it:  the  
foliage  had  grown  up  in  a
tangled  wall  on  the  edge  of  the  embankment.  The  edge  broke  off  
under  the  heels  of  Ben's
cowboy boots and Bill yanked him back by the scruff of the neck.

'Thanks,' Ben said.

'De nada.  In  the  o-old  d-days,  you  wuh-hould  have  puh-pulled  me  ih-in 
 a-a-after  you.  D-
Down this wuh-way?'

Ben  nodded  and  led  them  along  the  overgrown  bank,  fighting  through  
ht e  tangles  of  bushes
and  brambles,  thinking  how  much  easier  this  was  when  you  were  only  
four  feet  five  and  able
to  go  under  most  tangles  (those  in  your  mind  as  well  as  those  in  
your  path,  he  supposed)  in
one  nonchalant  duck.  Well,  everything  changed.  Our  lesson  for  today,  
boys  and  girls,  is  the
more things change, the more things change. Whoever said the more things change 
the more
things stay the same was obviously suffering severe mental retardation. Because 
—

His  foot  hooked  under  something  and  he  fell  over  with  a  thud,  
nearly  striking  his  head  on
the   pumping-station's   concrete   cylinder.   It   was   almost   completely 
  buried   in   a   wallow   of
blackberry  bushes.  As  he  got  to  his  feet  again  he  realized  that  his 
 face  and  arms  and  hands
had been striped by blackberry thorns in two dozen places.

'Make that three dozen,' he said, feeling thin blood running down his cheeks.


'What?' Eddie asked.

'Nothing.' He bent down to see what he had tripped over. A root, probably.
But it wasn't a root. It was the iron manhole cover. Someone had pushed it off.
Of course, Ben thought. We did. Twenty-seven years ago.

But  he  realized  that  was  crazy  even  before  he  saw  fresh  metal  
twinkling  through  the  rust  in
parallel   scrape-marks.  The  pump  hadn't  been  working  that  day.  Sooner  
or  later  someone
would have come down to fix it, and would have replaced the cover in the 
bargain.

He  stood  up  and  the  five  of  them  gathered  around  the  cylinder  and  
looked  in.  They  could
hear  the  faint  sound  of  dripping  water.  That  was  all.  Richie  had  
brought  all  the  matches  from
Eddie's  room.  Now  he  lit  an  entire  book  of  them  and  tossed  it  in.  
For  a  moment  they  could
see  the  cylinder's  damp  inner  sleeve  and  the  silent  bulk  of  the  
pumping  machinery.  That  was
all.

'Could  have  been  off   for  a  long  time,'  Richie  said  uneasily.  
'Didn't  necessarily  have  to
happen t — '

'It's  happened  fairly  recently,'  Ben  said.  'Since  the  last  rain,  
anyway.'  He  took  another  book
of matches from Richie, lit one, and pointed out the fresh scratches.

'There's suh-suh-something uh-under it,' Bill said as Ben shook out the match.
'What?' Ben asked.

'C-C-Couldn't  tuh-tuh-tell.  Looked  like  a  struh-struh-strap.  You  and  
Rih-Richie  help  me  -t

t-turn it o-over.'

They  grabbed  the  cover  and  flipped  it  like a giant coin. This time 
Beverly lit the match and
Ben  cautiously  picked  up  the  purse  which  had  been  under  the  manhole  
cover.  He  held  it  up
by  the  strap.  Beverly  started  to  shake  out  the  match  and  then  
looked  at  Bill's  face.  She  froze
until  the  flame  touched  the  ends  of  her  fingers  and  then  dropped  it 
 with  a  little  gasp.  'Bill?
What is it? What's wrong?'

Bill's  eyes  felt  too  heavy.  They  couldn't  leave  that  scuffed  leather  
bag  with  its  long  leather
strap.  Suddenly  he  could  remember  the  name  of  the  song which had been 
playing on the radio
in  the  back  room  of  the  leather-goods shop when he had bought it for her. 
'Sausalito Summer
Nights.'  It  was  the  surpassing  weirdism.  All  the  spit  was  gone  out  
of  his  mouth,  leaving  his
tongue  and  inner  cheeks  as  smooth and dry as chrome. He could hear the 
crickets and see the
lightning-bugs  and  smell  big  green  growing  dark  out  of  control  all  
around  him  and  he  thought
It's  another trick another illusion she's in England and this is just a cheap 
shot because It's
scared, oh yes, It's maybe not as sure as It was when It called us all back, 
and really, Bill, get
serious — how  many  scuffed  leather  purses  with  long  straps  do  you  
think  there  are  in  the
world? A million? Ten million?

Probably  more.  But  only  one  like  this.  He  had  bought  it  for  Audra  
in  a  Burbank  leather-
goods store while 'Sausalito Summer Nights' played on the radio in the back 
room.

'Bill?'  Beverly's  hand  on  his  shoulder,  shaking  him.  Far  away.  
Twenty-seven leagues under
the  sea.  What  was  the  name  of  the  group  that  sang  'Sausalito  Summer 
 Nights'?  Richie  would
know.

'I  know,'  Bill  said  calmly  into  Richie's  scared,  wide-eyed  face,  and  
smiled.  'It  was  Diesel.

How's that for total recall?'

'Bill, what's wrong?' Richie whispered.

Bill screamed. He  snatched  the  matches  out  of  Beverly's  hand,  lit  one, 
 and  then  yanked  the
purse away from Ben.

'Bill, Jesus, what — '

He  unzipped  the  purse  and  turned  it  over.  What  fell  out  was  so  
much  Audra  that  for  a
moment  he  was  too  unmanned  to  scream  again.  Amid  the  Kleenex,  sticks 
 of  chewing  gum,
and  items  of  make-up,  he  saw  a  tin  of  Altoid  mints  .  .  .  and  the 
 jewelled  compact  Freddie
Firestone had given her when she signed for Attic Room.


'My  wuh-wuh-wife's  down  there,'  he  said,  and  fell  on  his  knees  and  
began  pushing  her
things back into the purse. He brushed hair that no longer existed out of his 
eyes without even
thinking about it.

'Your wife? Audra? Beverly's face was shocked, her eyes huge.
'Her p-p-purse. Her th-things.'

'Jesus, Bill,' Richie muttered. 'That can't be, you know th — '

He  had  found  her  alligator  wallet.  He  opened  it  and  held  it  up.  
Richie  lit  another  match  and
was  looking  at  a  face  he  had  seen  in  half  a  dozen  movies.  The  
picture  on  Audra's  California
driver's license was less glamorous but completely conclusive.

'But  Huh-Huh-Henry's  dead,  and  Victor,  and  B-B-Belch  .  .  .  so  who's  
got  her?'  He  stood
up, staring around at them with febrile intensity. Who's got her?'

Ben put a hand on Bill's shoulder. 'I guess we better go down and find out, 
huh?'

Bill looked around at hull, as if unsure of who Ben might be, and then his eyes 
cleared. 'Y-
Yeah,' he said. 'Eh-Eh-Eddie?'

'Bill, I'm sorry.'

'Can you cluh-climb on?'
'I did once.'

Bill  bent  over  and  Eddie  hooked  his  right  arm  around  Bill's  neck.  
Ben  and  Richie  boosted
him up until he could hook his legs around Bill's midsection.

As Bill swung one leg clumsily over the lip of the cylinder, Ben saw that 
Eddie's eyes were
tightly  shut  .  .  .  and  for  a  moment  he  thought  he  heard  the  
world's  ugliest  cavalry  charge
bashing its way through the bushes. He turned, expecting to see the three of 
them come out of
the  fog  and  the  brambles,  but  all  he  had  heard  was  the  rising  
breeze  rattling  the  bamboo  a
quarter of a mile or so from here. Their old enemies were all gone now.

Bill  gripped  the  rough  concrete  lip  of  the  cylinder  and  felt  his  
way  down,  step  by  step  and
rung  by  rung.  Eddie  had  him  in  a  deathgrip  and  Bill  could  barely  
breathe.   Her  purse,  dear
God,  how  did  her  purse  get  here?  Doesn't  matter.  But  if  You're  
there,  God,  and  if  You're
taking requests, let her be all right, don't let her suffer for what Bev and I 
did tonight or for
what I did one summer when I was a boy . . . and was it the clown? Was it Bob 
Gray who got
her? If it was, I don't know if even God can help her.

'I'm scared, Bill,' Eddie said in a thin voice.

Bill's  foot  touched  cold  standing  water.  He  lowered  himself  into  it,  
remembering  the  feel
and  the  dank  smell,  remembering  the  claustrophobic  way  this  place  had 
 made  him  feel  .  .  .
and,  just  by  the  way,  what  had  happened  to  them?  How  had  they  
fared  down  in  these  drains
and  tunnels?  Where  exactly  had  they  gone,  and  how  exactly  had  they  
gotten  out  again?  He
still couldn't remember any of that; all he could think of was Audra.

'I  am  t-t-too.'  He  half-squatted,  wincing  as  the  cold  water  ran  into 
 his  pants  and  over  his
balls,  and  let  Eddie  off.  They  stood  shindeep  in  the  water  and  
watched  the  others  descend  the
ladder.


C H A P T E R  2 1

Under the City

1

It / August 1958

Something new had happened.

For the first time in forever, something new.

Before the universe there had been only two things. One was Itself and the 
other was the
Turtle.  The  Turtle  was  a  stupid  old  thing  that never  came  out  of  
its  shell.  It  thought  that
maybe the Turtle was dead, had been dead for the last billion years or so. Even 
if it wasn't, it
was still a stupid old thing, and even if the Turtle had vomited the universe 
out whole, that
didn't change the fact of its stupidity.

It had come here long after the Turtle withdrew into its shell, here to Earth, 
and It had
discovered a depth of imagination here that was almost new, almost of concern. 
This quality
of imagination made the food very rich. Its teeth rent flesh gone stiff with 
exotic terrors and
voluptuous  fears:  they  dreamed  of  nightbeasts  and  moving  muds;  against 
 their  will  they
contemplated endless gulphs.

Upon this rich food It existed in a simple cycle of waking to eat and sleeping 
to dream. It
had  created  a  place  in  Its  own  image,  and  It  looked  upon  this  
place  with  favor  from  the
deadlights  which  were  Its  eyes.  Derry  was  Its  killing-pen,  the  people 
 of  Derry  Its  sheep.
Things had gone on.

Then . . . these children.
Something new.

For the first time in forever.

When It had burst up into the house on Neibolt Street, meaning to kill them 
all, vaguely
uneasy that It had not been able to do so already (and surely that unease had 
been the first
new thing), something had happened which was totally unexpected, utterly 
unthought of, and
there had been pain, pain, great roaring pain all through the shape it had 
taken, and for one
moment there had also been fear, because the only thing It had in common with 
the stupid old
Turtle and the cosmology of the macroverse outside the puny egg of this 
universe was just
this: all living things must abide by the laws of the shape they inhabit. For 
the first time It
realized that perhaps Its ability to change Its shapes might work against It as 
well as for It.
There had never been pain before, there had never been  fear before, and for a 
moment It had
thought It might die — oh Its head had been filled with a great white silver 
pain, and it had
roared and mewled and bellowed and somehow the children had escaped.

But  now  they  were  coming.  They  had  entered  Its  domain  under  the  
city,  seven  foolish

children blundering through the darkness without lights or weapons. It would 
kill them now,
surely.

It had made a great self -discovery: It did not want change or surprise. It did 
not want new

things, ever. It wanted only to eat and sleep and dream and eat again.

Following  the  pain  and  that  brief  bright  fear,  another  new  emotion  
had  arisen  (as  all
genuine  emotions  were  new  to  It,  although  It  was  a  great  mocker  of  
emotions):  anger.  It
would  kill  the  children  because  they  had,  by  some  amazing  accident,  
hurt  It.  But  It  would
make them suffer first because for one brief moment they had made It fear them.


Come  to  me  then,  It  thought,  listening  to  their  approach.  Come  to  
me,  children,  and  see
how we float down here . . . how we all float.

And yet there was a thought that insinuated itself no matter how strongly It 
tried to push
the  thought  away.  It  was  simply  this:  if  all  things  flowed  from  It  
(as  they  surely had done
since  the  Turtle  sicked  up  the  universe  and  then  fainted  inside  its  
shell),  how  could  any
creature of this or any other world fool It or hurt It, no matter how briefly 
or triflingly? How
was that possible?

And so a last new thing had come to It, this not an emotion but a cold 
speculation: suppose
It had not been alone, as It had always believed?

Suppose there was Another?

And suppose further that these children were agents of that Other?
Suppose . . . suppose . . .

It began to tremble.

Hate was new. Hun was new. Being crossed in Its purpose was new. But the most 
terrible
new thing was this fear. Not fear of the children, that had passed, but the 
fear of not being
alone.

No. There  was no  other.  Surely  there  was  not.  Perhaps because they were 
children their
imaginations had a certain raw power It had briefly underestimated. But now 
that they were
coming, It would let them come. They would come and It would cast them one by 
one into the
macroverse . . . into the deadlights of Its eyes.

Yes.

When they got here It would cast them, shrieking and insane, into the 
deadlights.

2

In the Tunnels / 2:15 P.M.

Bev  and  Richie  had  maybe  ten  matches  between  them,  but  Bill  wouldn't 
 let  them  use  them.
For  the  time  being,  at  least,  there  was  still  dim  light  in  the  
dram.  Not  much,  but  he  could
make  out  the  next  four  feet  in  front  of  him,  and  as  long  as  he  
could  keep  doing  that,  they
would save the matches.

He  supposed  the  little  light  they  were  getting  must  be  coming  from  
vents in curbings over
their  heads,  maybe  even  from  the  circular  vents  in  manhole  covers.  
It  seemed  surpassingly
strange to think they were under the city, but of course by now they must be.

The  water  was  deeper  now.  Three  times  dead  animals  had  floated   
past:  a  rat,  a  kitten,  a
bloated  shiny  thing  that  might  have  been  a  woodchuck.  He  heard  one  
of  the  others  mutter
disgustedly as that baby cruised by.

The  water  they  were  crawling  through  was  relatively  placid,  but  all  
that  was  going  to  come

to  an  end  afirly  soon:  there  was  a  steady  hollow  roaring  not  too  
far  up  ahead.  It  grew  louder,

rising  to  a  one-note  roar.  The  drain  elbowed  to  the  right.  They  
made  the  turn  and  here  were
three  pipes  spewing  water  into  their  pipe.  They  were  lined  up  
vertically  like  the  lenses  on  a
traffic  light.  The  drain  deadended  here.  The  light  was  marginally  
brighter.  Bill  looked  up  and
saw  they  were  in  a  square  stone-faced shaft about fifteen feet high. 
There was a sewer-grating
up  there  and  water  was  sloshing  down  on  them  in  buckets.  It  was  
like  being  in  a  primitive
shower.

Bill  surveyed  the  three  pipes  helplessly.  The  top  one  was  venting  
water  which  was  almost
clear,  although  there  were  leaves  and  sticks  and  bits  of  trash  in  
it  —  cigarette  butts,  chewing-
gum wrappers, things  like that. The middle pipe was venting gray water. And 
from the lowest
one came a grayish-brown flood of lumpy sewage.


'Eh-Eh-Eddie!'

Eddie floundered up beside him. His hair was plastered to his head. His cast 
was a soaking,
drippy mess.

'Wh-Wh-Which wuh-wuh-one?'  If  you  wanted  to  know  how  to  build  
something, you asked

Ben;  if  you  wanted  to  know  which  way  to  go,  you  asked  Eddie.  They  
didn't  talk  about  this,
but  they  all  knew  it.  If  you  were  in  a  strange  neighborhood  and  
wanted  to  get  back  to  a place
you  knew,  Eddie  could  get  you  there,  making  lefts  and  rights  with  
undiminished  confidence
until  you  were  reduced  simply  to  following  him  and  hoping  that  
things  would  turn  out  right  .  .

.  which  they  always  seemed  to  do.  Bill  told  Richie  once  that  when 
he and Eddie first began to

play  in  the  Barrens,  he,  Bill,  was  constantly  afraid  of  getting  
lost.  Eddie  had  no  such  fears,
and  he  always  brought  the  two  of  them  out  right  where  he  said  he  
was  going  to.  'If  I  g-g-got
luh-lost  in  the  Hainesville  Woods  and  Eh-Eddie  was  with  me,  I  
wouldn't  wuh-hurry  a  b-bit,'
Bill told Richie. 'He just  nuh-nuh-knows.  My d-d-dad says some people, ih 
-hit's Hike they got
a cuh-huh-hompass in their heads. Eddie's l-l-like that.'

'I can't hear you!' Eddie shouted.
'I said wh-which one?

'Which  one  what?  Eddie  had  his  aspirator  clutched  in  his  good  hand,  
and  Bill  thought  he
actually looked more like a drowned muskrat than a kid.

'Which one do we tuh-tuh-take?'

'Well,  that  all  depends  on  where  we  want  to  go,'  Eddie  said, and 
Bill could have cheerfully
throttled him even though the question made perfect sense.

Eddie  was  looking  dubiously  at  the  three  pipes.  They  could  fit  into  
all  of  them,  but  the

bottom one looked pretty snug.

Bill  motioned  the  others  to  move  up  into  a  circle.  'Where  the  fuck  
is  Ih-Ih-It?'  he  asked
them.

'Middle of town,' Richie said promptly. 'Right under the middle of town.

Near the Canal.'

Beverly was nodding. So was Ben. So was Stan.
'Muh-Muh-Mike?'

'Yes,' he said. 'That's where It is. Near the Canal. Or under it.'
Bill looked back at Eddie. 'W-W-Which one?'

Eddie  pointed  reluctantly  at  the  lower  pipe  .  .  .  and  although  
Bill's  heart  sank,  he  wasn't  at
all surprised. 'That one.'

'Oh, gross,' Stan said unhappily. That's a shit-pipe.'

'We don't  —  '  Mike  began,  and  then  broke  off.  He  cocked  his  head  
in  a  listening  gesture.

His eyes were alarmed.

'What  —  '  Bill  began,  and  Mike  put  a  finger  across  his  lips  in  a  
Shhhh!  gesture. Now Bill
could   hear   it   too:   splashing  sounds.  Approaching.  Grunts  and  
muffled  words.  Henry  still
hadn't given up.

'Quick,' Ben said. 'Let's go.'

Stan  looked  back  the  way  they  had  come,  then  he  looked  at  the  
lowest  of  the  three  pipes.

He pressed his lips tightly together and nodded. 'Let's go,' he said. 'Shit 
washes off.'
'Stan the Man Gets Off A Good One!' Richie cried. 'Wacka-wacka-wa — '
'Richie, will you shut up?' Beverly hissed at him.

Bill  led  them  to  the  pipe,  grimacing  at  the  smell,  and  crawled  in.  
The  smell:  it was sewage,
it  was  shit,  but  there  was  another  smell  here,  too,  wasn't  there?  A 
 lower,  more  vital  smell.  If
an  animal's  grunt  could  have  a  smell  (and,  Bill  supposed,  if  the  
animal  in  question  had  been
eating  the  right  things,  it  could),  it  would  be  like this  undersmell. 
 We're  headed  in  the  right
direction, all right. It's been here . . . and Its been here a lot.


By  the  time  they  had  gone  twenty  feet,  the  air  had  grown  rancid  
and  poisonous.  He
squished   slowly   along,   moving   through   stuff   that   wasn't   mud.   
He   looked   back   over   his
shoulder and said, 'You fuh-fuh-follow right behind m-me, Eh-Eh-Eddie. I'll 
nuh-need y-you.'

The  light  faded  to  the  faintest  gray,  held  that  way  briefly,  and  
then  it  was  gone  and  they
were

(out of the blue and)

into  the  black.  Bill  shuffled  forward  through  the  sunk,  feeling  that  
he  was  almost  cutting
through  it  physically,  one  hand  held  out  before  him,  part  of  him  
expecting  that  at  any  moment
it  would  encounter  rough  hair  and  green  lamplike  eyes  would  open  in  
the  darkness. The end
would come in one hot flare of pain as It walloped his head off his shoulders.

The  dark  was  stuffed  with  sounds,  all  of  them  magnified  and  echoing. 
 He  could  hear  his
friends   shuffling   along   behind   him,   sometimes   muttering   
something.   There   were   gurglings
and   strange   clanking   groans.   Once   a   flood   of  sickeningly  warm  
water  washed  past  and
between  his  legs,  wetting  him  to  the  thighs  and  rocking  him  back  on 
 his  heels.  He  felt  Eddie
clutch  frantically  at  the  back  of  his  shirt,  and  then  the  small  
flood slackened. From the end of
the  line  Richie  bellowed  with  sorry  good  humor:  'I  think  we  just  
been  pissed  on  by  the  Jolly
Green Giant, Bill.'

Bill   could   hear   water   or   sewage   running   in   controlled   bursts  
 through   the   network  of
smaller  pipes  which  now  must  be  over  their  heads.  He  remembered  the  
conversation  about
Berry's sewers with his father and thought he knew what this pipe must be  — it 
was to handle
the  overflow  that  only  occurred  during  heavy  rains  and  during  the  
flood  season.  The  stuff  up
there  would  be  leaving  Derry  to  be  dumped  in  Torrault  Stream  and  
the  Penobscot  River.  The
city  didn't  like  to  pump  its  shit  into  the  Kenduskeag  because  it  
made  the  Canal  stink.  But  all
the  so-called  gray  water  went  into  the  Kenduskeag,  and  if  there  was  
too  much for the regular
sewer-pipes  to  handle,  there  would  be  a  dump -off . . . like the one 
that had just happened. If
there  had  been  one,  there  could  be  another.  He  glanced  up  uneasily,  
not  able  to  see  anything
but  knowing  that  there  must  be  grates  in  the  top  arch of the pipe, 
possibly in the sides as well,
and that any moment there might be —

He  wasn't  aware  he'd  reached  the  end  of  the  pipe  until  he  fell  out 
 of  it  and  staggered

forward,  pinwheeling  his  arms  in  a  helpless  effort  to  keep  his  
balance.  He  fell  on  his  belly
into  a  semi-solid  mass  about  two  feet  below  the  mouth  of  the  pipe  
he'd  just  tumbled  out  of.
Something  ran  squeaking  over  his  hand.  He  screamed  and  sat  up,  
clutching  his  tingling  hand
to             his  chest,  aware  that  a  rat  had  just  run  over  it;  he  
had felt the loathsome, plated drag of the
thing's hairless tail.

He  tried  to  stand  up  and  rapped  his  head  on  the  new  pipe's  low  
ceiling.  It  was  a  hard  hit,
and  Bill  was  driven  back  to  his  knees  with  large  red  flowers  
exploding  in  the  darkness  before
his eyes.

'Be  c-c-careful!'  He  heard  himself  shouting.  His  words  echoed  flatly.  
'It  drops  off  here!  Eh-
Eddie! Where a-a-are yuh-you?'

'Here!'  One  of  Eddie's  waving  hands  brushed  Bill's  nose.  'Help  me  
out,  Bill,  I  can't  see!  It's

— '

There  was  a  huge watery  ker-whasssh!  Beverly,  Mike,  and  Richie  all  
screamed  in  unison.
In  the  daylight,  the  almost  perfect  harmony  the  three  of  them  made  
would  have  been  funny;
down  here  in  the  dark,  in  the  sewers,  it  was  terrifying.  Suddenly  
all  of  them  were  tumbling
out. Bill clutched Eddie in a bear-hug, trying to save his arm.

'Oh  Christ,  I  thought  I  was  gonna  drown,'  Richie  moaned.  'We  got  
doused  —  oh  boy,  a
shit-shower,  oh  great,  they  ought  to  have  a  class  trip  down  here  
sometime,  Bill,  we  could  get
Mr Carson to lead it — '


'And  Miss  Jimmison  could  give  a  health  lecture  afterward,'  Ben  said  
in  a  trembling  voice,
and   they   all   laughed   shrilly.   As   the   laughter   was   tapering   
off,   Stan   suddenly   burst   into
miserable tears.

'Don't,  man,'  Richie  said,  putting  a  fumbling  arm  around  Stan's  
sticky  shoulders.  'You'll  get
us all cryin, man.'

'I'm  all  right!'  Stan  said  loudly,  still  crying.  'I  can  stand  to  be 
 scared,  but  I  hate  being dirty

like this, I hate not knowing where I am — '

'D-Do  y-y-you  th-think  a-a-any  of  the  muh-matches  are  still  a-a-any 
guh-good?' Bill asked
Richie.

'I gave mine to Bev.'

Bill  felt  a  hand  touch  his  in  the  darkness  and  press  a  folder  of  
matches  into  it.  They  felt
dry.

'I kept them in my armpit,' she said. 'They might work. You can try them, 
anyway.'

Bill  tore  a  match  out  of  the  folder  and  struck  it.  It  popped  
alight  and  he  held  it  up.  His
friends  were  huddled  together,  wincing  at  the  brief  bright  flare  of  
light.  They  were  splashed
and  daubed  with  ordure  and  they  all  looked  very  young  and  very  
afraid.  Behind  them  he
could  see  the  sewer-pipe they had come out of. The pipe they were in now was 
smaller still. It
ran straight in both directions, its floor caked with layers of filthy 
sediment. And —

He  drew  in  a  quick  hiss and  shook  the  match  out  as  it  burned  his  
fingers.  He  listened  and
heard  the  sounds  of  fast-running  water,  dripping  water,  the  occasional 
 gushing  roar  as  the
overflow  valves  worked,  sending  more  sewage  into  the  Kenduskeag,  which 
 was  now  God
only knew how far behind them. He didn't hear Henry and the others — yet.


He  said  quietly,  'There's  a  d-d-dead  bob-body  on  my  r-r-right.  About
away from uh-us. I think it m-might be Puh-Puh-Puh — '

-t t-ten fuh-feet  a-a-

'Patrick?'   Beverly   asked,   her   voice   trembling   on   the   edge   of  
 hysteria.   'Is   it   Patrick
Hockstetter?'

'Y-Y-Yes. Do you want me to luh-light a-a-another m-match?'

Eddie  said,  'You  got  to,  Bill.  If  I  don't  see  how  the  pipe  runs,  
I  won't  know  which  way  to
go.'

Bill  lit  the  match.  In  its  glow  they  all  saw  the  green,  swelled  
thing  that  had  been  Patrick
Hockstetter.  The  corpse  grinned  at  them  in  the  dark  with  horrid  
chumminess,  but  with  only
half  a  face;  sewer  rats  had  taken  the  rest.  Patrick's  summer-school  
books  were  scattered
around him, bloated to the size of dictionaries in the damp.

'Christ,' Mike said hoarsely, his eyes wide.

'I hear them again,' Beverly said. 'Henry and the others.'

The  acoustics  must  have  carried  her  voice  to  them  as  well;  Henry  
bellowed  down  the
sewer-pipe and for a moment it was as if he was standing right there.

'We'll getyouuuuuu — '

'You  come  on  right  ahead!'  Richie  shouted.  His  eyes  were  bright,  
dancing,  febrile.  'Keep
coming, banana-heels! This is just like the YMCA swimming pool down here! Keep 
— '

Then  a  shriek  of  such  mad  fear  and  pain  came  through  the  pipe  that 
 the  guttering  match  fell
from  Bill's  fingers  and  went  out.  Eddie's  arm  had  curled  around  him  
and  Bill  hugged  Eddie

back,  feeling  his  body  trembling  like  a  wire  as  Stan  Uris  packed  
close  to  him  on  the  other
side.  That  shriek  rose  and  rose  .  .  .  and  then  there  was  an  
obscene,  thick  flapping  noise,  and
the shriek was cut off.

'Something  got  one  of  them,'  Mike  choked,  horrified,  in  the  darkness. 
 'Something  .  .  .  some
monster . . . Bill, we got to get out of here . . . please . . . '

Bill could hear whoever was left  —  one  or  two,  with  the  acoustics  it  
was  impossible  to  tell

—   stumbling  and  scrabbling  through  the  sewer-pipe   toward   them.   
'Wuh-Which  w-w-way,
Eh-Eddie?' he asked urgently. 'D-Do you nuh-know?'


'Toward the Canal?' Eddie asked, shaking in Bill's arms.
'Yes!'

To  the  right.  Past  Patrick  .  .  .  or  over  him.'  Eddie's  voice  
suddenly  hardened.  'I  don't  care
that much. He was one of the ones that broke my arm. Spit in my face, too.'

'Let's  guh-go,'  Bill  said,  looking  back  at  the  sewer-pipe  they  had  
just  quitted.  'S-Single luh-
line! Keep a t-t-touch on e-each uh-uh-other, like b-b-before!'

He  groped  forward,  dragging  his  right  shoulder  along  the  slimy  
porcelain  surface  of  the
pipe, gritting his teeth, not wanting to step on Patrick . . . or into him.

So  they  crawled  farther  into  the  darkness  while  waters  rushed  around  
them  and  while,

outside,  the  storm  walked  and  talked  and  brought  an  early  darkness  
to  Derry  —  a darkness
that  screamed  with  wind  and  stuttered  with  electric  fire  and  racketed 
 with  falling  trees  that
sounded like the death-cries of huge prehistoric creatures.

3

It / May 1985

Now  they  were  coming  again,  and  while  everything  had  gone  much  as  
It  had foreseen,
something It had not foreseen had returned: that maddening, galling fear . . . 
that sense of
Another. It hated the fear, would have turned on it and eaten it if It could 
have . . . but the
fear danced mockingly out of reach, and It could only kill the fear by kitting 
them.

Surely there was no need for such fear; they were older now, and their number 
had been
reduced from seven to five. Five was a number of power, but it did not have the 
mystical
talismanic quality of seven. It was true that Its dogsbody hadn't been able to 
kill the librarian,
but    the librarian would die in the hospital. Later, just before dawn touched 
the sky, It would
send a male nurse with a bad pill habit to finish the librarian once and for 
all.

The  writer's  woman  was  now  with  It,  alive  yet  not  alive   — her  mind 
 had  been  utterly
destroyed by her first sight of It as It really was, with all of Its little 
masks and glamours
thrown aside  — and all of the glamours were only mirrors, of course, throwing 
back at the
terrified  viewer  the  worst  thing  in  his  or  her  own  mind,  
heliographing  images  as  a  mirror
may bounce a reflection of the sun into a wide unsuspecting eye and stun it to 
blindness.

Now the mind of the writer's wife was with It, in It, beyond the end of the 
macroverse; in
the darkness beyond the Turtle; in the outlands beyond all lands.

She was in Its eye; she was in Its mind.
She was in the deadlights.

Oh  but  the  glamours  were  amusing.  Hanlon,  for  instance.  He  would  not 
 remember,  not
consciously, but his mother could have told him where the bird he had seen at 
the Ironworks
came from. When he was a baby only six months old, his mother had left him 
sleeping in his
cradle in the side yard while she went around back to hang sheets and diapers 
on the line.
His screams had brought her on the run. A large crow had lighted on the edge of 
the carriage
and  was  pecking  at  baby  Mikey  like  an  evil  creature  in  a  nursery  
tale.  He  had  been
screaming in pain and terror, unable to drive away the crow, which had sensed 
weak prey.
She had struck the bird with her fist and driven it off, seen that it had 
brought blood in two or
three places on baby Mikey's arms, and taken him to Dr Stillwagon for a tetanus 
shot. A part
of Mike had remembered that always — tiny baby, giant bird  — and when It came 
to Mike,
Mike had seen the giant bird again.

But when the dogsbody husband of the girl from before brought the writer's 
woman, It had

put on no face  — It did not dress when It was at home. The dogsbody husband 
had looked
once  and had dropped dead of shock, his face gray, his eyes filling with the 
blood that had


squirted out of his brain in a dozen places. The writer's woman had put out one 
powerful,
horrified thought — OH DEAR JESUS IT IS FEMALE — and then all thoughts ceased. 
She
swam in the deadlights. It came down from Its place and took care of her 
physical remains;
prepared them for later feeding. Now Audra Denbrough hung high up in the middle 
of things,
crisscrossed  in  silk,  her  head  lolling  against  the  socket  of  her  
shoulder, her eyes wide and
glazed,  her toes pointing down.

But  there  was  still  power  in  them.  Diminished  but  still  there.  They  
had  come  here  as
children  and  somehow,  against  all  the  odds,  against  all  that  was  
supposed  to be, all that
could be, they had hurt  It badly, had almost killed It, had forced It to flee 
deep into the earth,
where it huddled, hurt and hating and trembling in a spreading pool of Its own 
strange blood.
So another new thing, if you please: for the first time in Its neverending 
history, It needed
to make a plan; for the first time It found Itself afraid simply to take what 
It wanted from

Derry, Its private game-preserve.

It had always fed well on children. Many adults could be used without knowing 
they had
been used, and It had even fed on a few of the older ones over the years  — 
adults had their
own  terrors,  and  their  glands  could  be  tapped,  opened  so  that  all  
the  chemicals  of  fear
flooded the body and salted the meat. But their fears were mostly too complex. 
The fears of
children  were  simpler  and  usually  more  powerful.  The  fears  of  
children  could  often  be
summoned up in a single face . . . and if bait were needed, why, what child did 
not love a
clown?

It understood vaguely that these children had somehow turned Its own tools 
against It —
that, by coincidence (surely not on purpose, surely not guided by the hand of 
any Other), by
the bonding of seven extraordinarily imaginative minds, It had been Drought 
into a zone of
great danger. Any of these seven alone would have been Its meat and drink, and 
if they had
not happened to come together, It surely would have picked them off one by one, 
drawn by
the quality of their minds just as a lion might be drawn to one particular 
waterhole by the
scent of zebra. But together they had discovered an alarming secret that even 
It had not been
aware  of:  that  belief  has  a  second  edge.  If  there  are  ten  thousand  
medieval  peasants  who
create  vampires  by  believing  them  real,  there  may  be  one  — probably a 
child  — who will
imagine the stake necessary to kill it. But a stake is only stupid wood; the 
mind is the mallet
which drives it home.

Yet in the end It had escaped; had gone deep, and the exhausted, terrified 
children had
elected not to follow It when It was at Its most vulnerable. They had elected 
to believe It dead
or dying, and had retreated.

It was aware of their oath, and had known they would come back just as a lion 
knows the
zebra  will  eventually  return  to  the  waterhole.  It  had  begun  to  plan  
even  as  It  began  to
drowse. When It woke It would be healed, renewed  — but their childhoods would 
be burned
away like seven fatty candles. The former power of their imaginations would be 
muted and
weak. They would no longer imagine that there were piranha in the Kenduskeag or 
that if you
stepped on a crack you might really break your mother's back or that if you 
killed a ladybug
which lit on your shin your house would catch fire that night. Instead, they 
would believe in
insurance.  Instead,  they  would  believe  in  wine  with  dinner   —  
something  nice  but  not  too
pretentious, like a Pouilly-Fuissé  '83, and let that breathe, waiter, would 
you? Instead, they
would  believe  that  Rolaids  consume  forty-seven times their own weight in 
excess stomach
acid.  Instead,  they  would  believe  in  public  television,  Gary  Hart,  
running  to  prevent  heart
attacks, giving up red meat to prevent colon cancer. They would believe in Dr 
Ruth when it
came to getting well fucked and Jerry Falwell when it came to getting well 
saved. As each
year  passed  their  dreams  would  grow  smaller.  And  when It woke It would 
call them back,
yes, back, because fear was fertile, its child was rage, and rage cried for 
revenge.

It would call them and then kill them.


Only  now  that  they  were  coming,  the  fear  had  returned.  They  had  
grown  up,  and  their
imaginations had weakened  — but not as much as It had believed. It had felt an 
ominous,
upsetting growth in their power when they joined together, and It had wondered 
for the first
time if It had perhaps made a mistake.

But why be gloomy? The die was cast and not all the omens were bad. The writer 
was half -
mad for his wife, and that was good. The writer was the strongest, the one who 
had somehow
trained his mind for this confrontation over all the years, and when the writer 
was dead with
his  guts  falling  out of his body, when their precious 'Big Bill' was dead, 
the others would be
Its quickly.

It would feed well . . . and then perhaps It would go deep again. And doze. For 
awhile.

4

In the Tunnels / 4:30 A.M.

'Bill!'  Richie  shouted  into  the  echoing  pipe.  He  was  moving  as  fast  
as  he  could,  but  that
wasn't  very  fast.  He  remembered  that  as  kids  they  had  walked  bent  
over  in  this  pipe,  which
led   away   from   the   pumping-station  in  the  Barrens.  He  was  crawling 
 now,  and  the  pipe
seemed  impossibly  tight.  His  glasses kept wanting to slide off the end of 
his nose and he kept
pushing them up again. He could hear Bev and Ben behind him.

'Bill!' he bawled again. 'Eddie!'

'I'm here!' Eddie's voice floated back.
'Where's Bill?' Richie shouted.

'Up  ahead!'  Eddie  called.  He  was  very  close  now,  and  Richie  sensed  
rather  than  saw  him
just ahead. 'He wouldn't wait!'

Richie's head butted Eddie's leg. A moment later Bev's head butted Richie's 
ass.

'Bill!'  Richie  screamed  at  the  top  of  his  voice.  The  pipe  channelled 
 his  shout  and  sent  it
back at him, hurting his own ears.  'Bill, wait for us! We have to go together, 
don't you know
that?'

Faintly, echoing, Bill: 'Audra! Audra! Where are you?'

'Goddam  you,  Big  Bill!'  Richie  cried  softly.  His  glasses  fell  off.  
He  cursed,  groped  for
them,  and  set  them,  dripping,  back  on  his  nose.  He  pulled  in  breath 
 and  shouted  again:  'You'll
get  lost  without  Eddie,  you  fucking  asshole!  Wait  up!  Wait  up  for  
us!  You  hear  me,  Bill?
WAIT UP FOR US, DAMMIT!'

There  was  an  agonizing  moment  of  silence.  It  seemed  that  no  one  
breathed.  All  Richie
could  hear  was  distant  dripping  water;  the  drain  was  dry  this  time,  
except  for  the  occasional
stagnant puddle.

'Bill!'  He  ran  a  trembling  hand  through  his  hair  and  fought  the  
tears.  'COME  ON  .  .  .

PLEASE, MAN! WAIT UP! PLEASE!'

And, fainter still, Bill's voice came back: 'I'm waiting.'

Thank God for small favors,' Richie muttered. He slapped Eddie's can. 'Go.'
'I don't know how long I can with just one arm,' Eddie said apologetically.
'Go anyway,' Richie said, and Eddie began crawling again.

Bill,  looking  haggard  and  almost  used-up,  was  waiting  for  them  in  
the  sewer-shaft  where
the  three  pipes  were  lined  up  like  lenses  on  a  dead  traffic  light.  
There  was  room  enough here
for them to stand up.

'Over there,' Bill said. 'Cuh-Criss. And B-B-Belch.'


They  looked.  Beverly  moaned  and  Ben  put  an  arm  around  her.  The  
skeleton  of  Belch
Huggins,  clad  in  moldering  rags,  seemed  more  or  less  intact.  What  
remained  of  Victor  was
headless. Bill looked across the shaftway and saw a grinning skull.

There it was; there was the rest of him.  Should  have  left  it  alone,  
guys,,  Bill thought, and
shivered.

This  section  of  the  sewer  system  had  fallen  into  disuse;  Richie  
thought  the reason why was

pretty  clear.  The  waste-treatment  plant  had  taken  over.  Sometime  
during  the  years  when  they
were  all  busy  learning  to  shave,  to  drive,  to  smoke,  to  fuck  around 
 a  little,  all  that  good  shit,
the   Environmental   Protection   Agency   had   come   into   being,   and   
the   EPA   had   decided
dumping raw sewage  —  and  even  gray  water   —  into rivers and streams was 
a no -no. So this
part   of  the  sewer  system  had  simply  moldered,  and  the  bodies  of  
Victor  Criss  and  Belch
Huggins  had  moldered  along  with  it.  Like  Peter  Pan's  Wild  Boys,  
Victor  and  Belch  had  never
grown  up.  Here  were  the  skeletons  of  two  boys  in  the  shredded  
remains  of  tee-shirts  and
jeans  that  had  rotted  away  to  rags.  Moss  had  grown  over  the  warped  
xylophone  of  Victor's
ribcage, and over the eagle on the buckle of his garrison-belt.

'Monster got em,' Ben said softly. 'Do you remember? We heard it happen.'
'Audra's d-dead.' Bill voice was mechanical. 'I know it.'

'You don't know  any  such  thing!'  Beverly said with such fury that Bill 
stirred and lo oked at
her. 'All you know for sure is that a lot of other  people have died, most of 
them children.' She
walked  across  to  him  and  stood  before  him  with  her  hands  on  her  
hips.  Her  face  and  hands
were  streaked  with  grime,  her  hair  matted  with  dirt.  Richie  thought  
she  looked  absolutely
magnificent. 'And you know what did it.'

'I nuh-never  should  have  t-t-told  her  where  I  was  guh-going,' Bill 
said. 'Why did I do that?

Why did I — '

Her hands pistoned out and seized him by the shirt. Amazed, Richie watched as 
she shook

him.

'No  more!  You  know  what  we  came  for!  We  swore,  and  we're  going  to  
do  it!  Do you
understand me, Bill? If she's dead, she's dead . . .  but It's not!  Now, we 
need you. Do you get
it?  We  need  you!'  She  was  crying  now.  'So  you  stand  up   for  us!  
You  stand  up  for  us  like
before or none of us are going to get out of here!'

He  looked  at  her  for  a  long  time  without  speaking,  and  Richie  found 
 himself  thinking,

Come on, Big Bill. Come on, come on —

Bill looked around at the rest of them and nodded. 'Eh-Eddie.'
'I'm here, Bill.'

'D-Do y-you still ruh-remember which p-p-pipe?'

Eddie pointed past Victor and said: 'That the one. Looks pretty small, doesn't 
it?'
Bill nodded again. 'Can you do it? With your a-a-arm broken?'

'I can for you, Bill.'

Bill  smiled:  the  weariest,  most  terrible  smile  Richie  had  ever  seen.  
'Tuh-hake  us  there,  Eh-
Eddie. Let's g-get it done.'

5

In the Tunnels / 4:55 A.M.

As  he  crawled,  Bill  reminded  himself  of  the  dropoff  at  the  end  of  
this  pipe,  but  it  still
surprised  him.  At  one  moment  his  hands  were  shuffling  along  the  
crusted  surface  of  the  old
pipe;  at  the  next  they  were  skating  on  air.  He  pitched  forward  and  
rolled  instinctively,  landing
on his shoulder with a painful crunch.


'Be c-c-careful!' he heard himself shouting. 'Here's the druh-hopoff! 
Eh-Eh-Eddie?'

'Here!' One of Eddie's waving hands brushed across Bill's forehead. 'Can you 
help me out?'

He  got  his  arms  around  Eddie  and  lifted  him  out,  trying  to  be  
careful  of  the  bad  arm. Ben
came next, then Bev, then Richie.

'You got any muh-muh-matches, Ruh-Richie?'

'I  do,'  Beverly  said.  Bill  felt  a  hand  touch  his  in  the  darkness  
and  press  a  folder  of  matches
into it. 'There's only eight or ten, but Ben's got more. From the room.'

Bill said, 'Did you keep them in your a-a-armpit, B-Bev?'

'Not this time,' she said, and put her arms around him in the dark. He hugged 
her tight, eyes
closed, trying to take the comfort that she wanted so badly to give.

He  released  her  gently  and  struck  a  match.  The  power  of  memory  was  
great   —  they  all

looked  at  once  to  their  right.  What  remained  of  Patrick  Hockstetter's 
 body  was  still  there,
amid   a   few   lumpy,   overgrown   things   that   might   have   been   
books.   The   only   really
recognizable thing was a jutting semicircle of teeth, two or three of them with 
fillings.

And something nearby. A gleaming circle barely seen in the match's guttering 
light.

Bill  shook  the  match  out  and  lit  another.  He  picked  it  up.  'Audra's 
 wedding  ring,'  he  said.

His voice was hollow, expressionless.
The match went out in his ringers.
In the darkness he put the ring on.

'Bill?' Richie said hesitantly. 'Do you have any idea

6

In the Tunnels / 2:20 P.M.

how  long  they  had  been  wandering  through  the  tunnels  under  Derry  
since  they  had  left  the
place  where  Patrick  Hockstetter's  body  was,  but  Bill  was  sure  he  
could  never  find  his  way
back. He kept thinking about what his father had  said: You could wander for 
weeks.  If Eddie's
sense  of  direction  failed  them  now,  they  wouldn't  need  It  to  kill  
them;  they  would  wander
until they died . . . or, if they got into the wrong set of pipes, until they 
were drowned like rats
in a rain-barrel.

But  Eddie  didn't  seem  a  bit  worried.  Every  now  and  then  he  would  
ask  Bill to light one of
their  diminishing  store  of  matches,  look  around  thoughtfully,  and  then 
 set  off  again.  He  made
rights  and  lefts  seemingly  at  random.  Sometimes  the  pipes  were  so  
big  Bill  could  not  reach
their  tops  even  by  stretching  his  hand  up  all  the  way. Sometimes they 
had to crawl, and once,
for  five  horrible  minutes  (which  felt  more  like  five  hours),  they  
wormed  their  way  along  on
their  bellies,  Eddie  now  leading,  the  others  following  with  their  
noses  to  the  heels  of  the
person ahead.

The  only  thing  Bill  was  completely  sure  of  was  that  they  had  
somehow  gotten  into  a
disused  section  of  the  Derry  sewer  system.  They  had  left  all  the  
active  pipes  either  far  behind
or  far  above.  The  roar  of  running  water  had  dimmed  to  a  far-off  
thunder.  These  pipes  were
older,  not  kiln-fired  ceramic  but  a  crumbly  claylike  stuff  that  
sometimes  oozed  springs  of
unpleasant-smelling  fluid.  The  smells  of  human  waste   —  those  ripe  
gassy  smells  that  had
threatened  to  suffocate  them  all  —  had  faded,  but  they  had  been  
replaced  by  another smell,
yellow and ancient, that was worse.

Ben  thought  it  was  the  smell  of  the  mummy.  To  Eddie  it  smelled  
like  the  leper.  Richie
thought  it  smelled  like  the  world's  oldest  flannel  jacket,  now  
moldering  and  rotting  —  a
lumberman's  jacket,  a  very big  one,  big  enough  for  a  character  like  
Paul  Bunyan,  perhaps.  To
Beverly  it  smelled  like  her  father's  sock-drawer. In Stan Uris it woke a 
dreadful memory from


his   earliest   childhood   —   an   oddly   Jewish   memory   in   a   boy   
who   had   only   the   haziest
understanding  of  his  own  Jewishness.  It  smelled  like  clay  mixed  with  
oil  and  made  him  think
of  an  eyeless,  mouthless  demon  called  the  Golem,  a  clay  man  that  
renegade  Jews  were
supposed  to  have  raised  in  the  Middle  Ages  to  save  them  from  the  
goyim  who  robbed  them
and  raped  their  women  and  then  sent  them  packing.  Mike  thought  of  
the  dry  smell  of  feathers
in a dead nest.

When  they  finally  reached  the  end  of  the  narrow  pipe,  they  slithered 
 like  eels  down  the
curved  surface  of  another  which  ran  at  an  oblique  angle  to  the  one  
they  had  been  in,  and
found  they  could  stand  up  again.  Bill  felt  the  heads  of  the  matches 
 left  in  the  book.  Four.  His
mouth  tightened  and  he  resolved  not  to  tell  the  others  how  close  
they  were  to  the  end  of  their
light . . . not unless he absolutely had to.

'Huh-Huh-How you g-g-guys d-doin?'

They  murmured  replies,  and  he  nodded  in  the  dark.  No  panic,  and  no  
tears  since  Stan's.
That was good. He felt for their hands and they stood together in the dark that 
way for awhile,
both  taking  and  giving  from  the  touch.  Bill  felt  clear  exultation  in 
 this,  a  sure  sense  that  they
were  somehow  producing  more  than  the  sum  of  their  seven  selves;  they 
 had  been  re-added
into a more potent whole.

He  lit  one  of  the  remaining  matches  and  they  saw  a  narrow  tunnel 
stretching  ahead  on  a
downward  slant.  The  top  of  this  pipe  was  festooned  with  sagging  
cobwebs,  some  water-
broken  and  hanging  in  shrouds.  Looking  at  them  gave  Bill  an  
atavistic  chill.  The  floor  here
was  dry  but  thick  with  ancient  mold  and  what  might  have  been leaves, 
fungus . . . or some
unimaginable  droppings.  Farther  up  he  saw  a  pile  of  bones  and  a  
drift  of  green  rags.  They
might   once   have   been   that   stuff   they   called   'polished   
cotton,'   workman's   clothes.   Bill
imagined   some   Sewer   Department   or   Water   Department   worker   who   
had   gotten   lost,
wandered down here, and been discovered . . .

The match guttered. He tipped its head downward, wanting the light to last a 
little longer.
'Do y-y-you nuh-know where w-w-we are?' he asked Eddie.

Eddie  pointed  down  the  slightly  crooked  bore  of  the  tunnel.  'Canal's  
that  way,'  he  said.
'Less'n  half  a  mile,  unless  this  thing  turns  in  a  different  
direction.  We're  under  Up-Mile  Hill
right now, I think. But Bill — '

The  match  burned  Bill's  ringers  and  he  let  it  drop.  They  were  in  
darkness  again.  Someone

—  Bill  thought  it  was  Beverly —  sighed.  But  before  the  match  had  
gone  out,  he  had  seen  the
worry on Eddie's face.

'W-W-What? What ih-is it?'

'When  I  say  we're  under  Up-Mile  Hill,  I  mean  we're  really  under it.  
We  been  going  down
for  a  long  time  now.  Nobody'd   ever  put  sewer-pipe  in  this  deep.  
When  you  put  a  tunnel  this
deep you call it a mine-shaft.'

'How deep do you figure we are, Eddie?' Richie asked.
'Quarter of a mile,' Eddie said. 'Maybe more.'

'Jesus-please-us,' Beverly said.

'These  aren't  sewer-pipes, anyway,' Stan said from behind them. 'You can tell 
by that smell.

It's bad, but it's not a sewery smell.'

'I think I'd rather smell the sewer,' Ben said. 'It smells like — '

A  scream  floated  down  to  them,  issuing  from  the  mouth  of  the  pipe  
they  had  just  left,
lifting  the  hair  on  the  nape  of  Bill's  neck.  The  seven  of  them  
drew  together,  clutching  each
other.

' — gonna get you sons of bitches. We're gonna get youuuuuuu —

'Henry,' Eddie breathed. 'Oh my God, he's still coming.'

'I'm not surprised,' Richie said. 'Some people are too stupid to quit.'
They could hear faint panting, the scrape of shoes, the whisper of cloth.


' — youuuuuuuuu —

'Cuh-Cuh-Come on,' Bill said.

They  started  down  the  pipe,  now  walking  double  except  for  Mike,  who  
was  at  the  back  of
the line: Bill and Eddie, Richie and Bev, Ben and Stan.

'H-H-How fuh-far b-b-back do y-you think H-H-Henry ih-his?'

'I  couldn't  tell,  Big  Bill,'  Eddie  said.  The  echoes  are  bad.'  He  
dropped  his  voice.  'Did  you
see that pile of bones?'

'Y-Y-Yes,' Bill said, dropping his own voice.

There was a tool-belt with the clothes. I think it was a Water Department guy.'
'I guh-guess s-s-so.'

'How long you think — ?'

'I d-d-don't nuh-nuh-know.' I   Eddie closed his good hand over Bill's arm in 
the darkness.

It  was  perhaps  fifteen  minutes  later  when  they  heard  something  coming 
 toward  them  in  the
dark.

Richie  stopped,  frozen  cold  all  the  way  through. Suddenly he was three 
years old again. He
listened  to  that  squelching,  shifting  movement  —  closing  in  on  them,  
closing  —  and  to  the
whispering  branchlike  sounds  that  accompanied  it,  and  even  before  Bill 
 struck  a  match  he
knew what it would be.

'The Eye!' he screamed. 'Christ, it's the Crawling Eye!'

For  a  moment  the  others  were  not  sure  what  they  were  seeing  
(Beverly  had  an  impression
that  her  father  had  found  her,  even  down  here,  and  Eddie  had  a  
fleeting  vision  of  Patrick
Hockstetter  come  back  to  life,  somehow  Patrick  had  flanked  them  and  
gotten  in  front  of
them),   but  Richie's  cry,  Richie's  certainty,  froze  the  shape  for  all 
 of  them.  They  saw  what
Richie saw.

A  gigantic  Eye  filled  the  tunnel,  the  glassy  black  pupil  two  feet  
across,  the  iris  a  muddy
russet  color.  The  white  was  bulgy,  membranous,  laced  with  red  veins  
that  pulsed  steadily.  It
was  a  lidless  lashless  gelatinous  horror  that  moved  on  a  bed  of  
raw-looking  tentacles.  These
fumbled  over  the  tunnel's  crumbly  surface  and  sank  in  like  fingers,  
so  that  the  impression
given  in  the  glow  of  Bill's  guttering  match  was  of  an  Eye  that  had 
 somehow  grown  nightmare
fingers which were pulling It along.

It stared at them with blank, feverish avarice. The match went out.

In  the  darkness,  Bill  felt  those  branchlike  tentacles  caress  his  
ankles,  his  shins  .  .  .  but  he
could  not  move.  His  body  was  frozen  solid.  He  sensed  It  approaching, 
 he  could  feel  the  heat
radiating  out  from  It,  and  could  hear  the  wet  pulse  of  blood  
wetting  Its  membranes.  He
imagined  the  stickiness  he  would  feel  when  It  touched  him  and  still  
he  could  not  scream.
Even  when  fresh  tentacles  slipped  around  his  waist  and  hooked  
themselves  into  the  loops  of
his  jeans  and  began  to  drag  him  forward,  he  could  not  scream  or  
struggle.  A  deadly sleepiness
seemed to have suffused his whole body.

Beverly  felt  one  of  the  tentacles  slip  around  the  cup  of  her  ear  
and  suddenly  draw  noose-
tight.   Paul   flared   and   she   was   dragged   forward,   twisting   and  
 moaning,   as   if   an   old-lady
schoolteacher  were  giving  her  an  out-of-patience  come -along  to  the  
back  of  the  room,  where
she       would  be  forced  to  sit  on  a  stool  and  wear  a  duncecap.  
Stan  and  Richie  tried  to  back
away,  but  a  forest  of  unseen  tentacles  now  wavered  and  whispered  
about  them.  Ben  put  an
arm around Beverly and tried to tug her back. She clasped his hands with 
panicky tightness.

'Ben . . . Ben, It's got me . . . '

'No It don't . . . Wait . . . I'll pull . . . '

He  pulled  with  all  his  might,  and  Beverly  screamed  as  pain  tore  
through  her   ear and blood
began  to  flow.  A  tentacle,  dry  and  hard,  scraped  over  Ben's  shirt,  
paused,  then  twisted  in  a
painful knot around his shoulder.


Bill  put  out  a  hand,  and  it  slapped  into  a  gluey  yielding  wetness.  
The  Eye!  his mind
screamed. Oh God I got my  hand in the Eye! Oh God! Oh dear sweet God! The Eye! 
My hand
in the Eye!

He   began   to   fight   now,   but   the   tentacles   drew   him   forward   
inexorably.   His   hand
disappeared  into  that  wet  avid  heat.  His  forearm.  Now  his  arm  was  
lunged  into  the  Eye  up  to
the  elbow.  At  any  moment  the  rest  of  his  body  would  come  against  
that  sticky  surface  and  he
felt  that  he  would  go  mad  in  that  instant.  He  fought  frantically,  
chopping  at  the  tentacles  with
his other hand.

Eddie  stood  like  a  boy  in  a  dream,  hearing  the  muffled  screams  and  
sounds  of  struggle  as

his  friends  were  being  pulled  in.  He  sensed  the  tentacles  around  him 
 but  none  had  as  yet
actually landed on him.

Run home!  his mind commanded him quite loudly.  Run home to your mamma, Eddie! 
You
can find the way!

Bill   screamed   in   the   dark   —   a  high,  despairing  sound  that  was  
followed  by  hideous

squishings and slobberings.

Eddie's paralysis broke wide open — It was trying to take Big Bill!

'No!'  Eddie  bellowed  —  it  was  a  full-blown  roar.  One  might  never  
have  guessed  such  a
Norse-warrior   sound   could   issue   from   such   a   thin   chest,   Eddie 
  Kaspbrak's   chest,   Eddie
Kaspbrak's  lungs,  which  were  of  course  afflicted  with  the  most  
terrible  case  of  asthma  in
Derry.  He  bolted  forward,  jumping  over  questing  tentacles  without  
seeing  them,  his  broken
arm  thumping  his  own  chest  as  it  swung  back  and  forth  in  its  soggy 
 cast.  He  fumbled  in  his
pocket and brought out his aspirator.

(acid that's what it tastes like acid acid battery acid)

He   collided   with   Bill   Denbrough's   back  and  slammed  him  aside.  
There  was  a  watery
ripping  sound,  followed  by  a  low  eager  mewling  that  Eddie  did  not  
so  much  hear  with  his
ears as feel with his mind. He raised the aspirator

(acid it's acid if I want it to be so eat it eat it eat)

'BATTERY  ACID,  FUCKNUTS!'   Eddie  screamed,  and  triggered  off  a  blast.  
At  the  same
time he kicked at the Eye. His foot went deep into the jelly of Its cornea. 
There was a gush of
hot fluid over his leg. He pulled his foot back, only dimly aware that he had 
lost his shoe.

'FUCK OFF! CRAM IT, SAM! GO AWAY, JOSÉ! GET LOST! FUCK OFF!'

He  felt  tentacles  touch  him,  but  tentatively.  He  triggered  the  
aspirator  again,  coating  the
Eye, and felt/heard that mewling again . . . now a hurt, surprised sound.

'Fight It!'  Eddie raved at the others. 'It's just a fucking Eye! Fight It! You 
hear me? Fight It,

Bill! Kick the shit out of the sucker! Jesus Christ you fucking pussies I'm 
doing the Mashed
Potatoes all over It AND I GOT A BROKEN ARM!'

Bill  felt  his  strength  return.  He  ripped  his  dripping  arm  out  of  
the  Eye  .  .  .  and  then
slammed  it,  fist-first,  back  in.  A  moment  later  Ben  was  beside  him.  
He  ran  into  the  Eye,
grunted  with  surprise  and  disgust,  and  then  began  to  rain  punches  
onto  its  jellied  quivering
surface. 'Let her go!' he yelled. 'You hear me? Let her go! Get outta here! Get 
outta here!'

'Just   an   Eye!   Just   a   fucking   Eye!'  Eddie  was  screaming  
deliriously.  He  triggered  his
aspirator  again  and  felt  It  draw  back.  The  tentacles  which  had  
settled  on  him  now  dropped
away. 'Richie! Richie! Get it! It's just an Eye!'

Richie  stumbled  forward,  unable  to  believe  he  was  doing  this,  
actually  approaching  the
worst, most terrible monster in the world. But he was.

He  only  threw  a  single  weak  punch,  and  the  feel  of  his  fist  
sinking  into  the  Eye  —  it was

thick   and   wet   and   somehow   gristly  —  made  him  throw  his  guts  up 
 in  one  big  tasteless
convulsion.  A  sound  came  out  of  him —  glurt! —  and the thought that 
he'd actually puked  on
the      Eye  caused  him  to  do  it  again.  It  was  only  a  single  punch, 
 but  since  he  had  created  this
particular  monster,  perhaps  that  was  all  that  was  necessary.  Suddenly  
the  tentacles  were  gone.


They could hear It withdrawing . . . and then the only sounds were Eddie 
panting and Beverly
crying softly, one hand to her bleeding ear.

Bill  struck  one  of  their  three  remaining  matches  and  they  stared  at  
each  other  with  dazed,
shocked  faces.  Bill's  left  arm  was  running  with  a  thick,  cloudy  goo  
that  looked  like  a  mixture
of   partially   congealed   eggwhite   and   snot.   Blood   was   trickling   
slowly   down   the   side   of
Beverly's  neck,  and  there  was  a  fresh  cut  on  Ben's  cheek.  Richie  
slowly  pushed  his  glasses  up
on his nose.

'A-A-Are we all ruh-ruh-right?' Bill asked hoarsely.

'Are you, Bill?' Richie asked.

'Y-Y-Yeah.'  He  turned  to  Eddie  and  hugged  the  smaller  boy  with  
fierce  intensity.  'You  suh-
suh-saved my luh-life, man.'

'It ate your shoe,' Beverly said, and uttered a wild laugh. 'Isn't that too 
bad.'

'I'll buy you a new pair of Keds when we get out of here,' Richie said. He 
clapped Eddie on
the back in the dark. 'How did you do it, Eddie?'

'Shot  it  with  my  aspirator.  Pretended  it  was  acid.  That's  how  it  
tastes  after  awhile  if  I'm
having, you know, a bad day. Worked great.'

'"I'm  doing  the  Mashed   Potatoes  all  over  It  and  I  GOT  A  BROKEN  
ARM,"  Richie  said,
and giggled madly. 'Not too shabby, Eds. Actually pretty chuckalicious, tell 
you what.'

'I hate it when you call me Eds.'

'I  know,'  Richie  said,  hugging  him  tightly,  'but  somebody  has  to  
toughen  you  up,  Eds.
When  you  stop  leading  the  sheltered  igszistence  of  a  child  and  grow  
up,  you  gonna,  Ah  say,
Ah say you gonna find out life ain't always this easy, boy!'

Eddie began to shriek with laughter. 'That's the shittiest Voice I ever heard, 
Richie.'
'Well, keep that aspirator thing handy,' Beverly said. 'We might need it again.'
'You didn't see It anywhere?' Mike asked. 'When you lit the match?'

'Ih-Ih-It's  g-g-gone,'  Bill  said,  and  then  added  grimly:  'But  we're  
getting  close  to  It.  To the
pluh-hace where Ih-It stuh-stuh-stays. And I th-think we h-h-hurt Ih-hit 
th-that time.'

'Henry's still coming,' Stan said. His voice was low and hoarse. 'I can hear 
him back there.'
'Then let's move out,' Ben said.

They did. The tunnel  progressed steadily downward, and that smell  —  that low 
wild stench

—  grew  steadily  stronger.  At  times  they  could  hear  Henry  behind  
them,  but  now  his  cries
seemed  far  away  and  not  at  all  important.  There  was  a  feeling  in  
all  of  them — similar to that
feeling  of  skew  and  disconnection  they  had  felt  in  the  house  on  
Neibolt  Street  —  that  they
had   progressed   over   the   edge   of   the   world   and   into   some   
queer   nothingness.   Bill   felt
(although   he   did   not   have   the   vocabulary   to   express   what   he 
  knew)   that   they   were
approaching Derry's dark and ruined heart.

It  seemed  to  Mike  Hanlon  that  he  could  almost  feel  that  heart's  
diseased,  arrhythmic  beat.
Beverly  felt  a  sense  of  evil  power  growing  around  her,  seeming  to  
enfold  her,  certainly  trying
to  split  her  off  from  the  others  and  make  her  alone.  Nervously,  she 
 reached  out  on  either  side
of herself and clasped Bill's hand and Ben's. It seemed to her that she had to 
reach too far, and
she called out nervously: 'Hang onto hands! It's like we're moving away from 
each other!'

It  was  Stan  who  first  realized  he  could  see  again.  There  was  a  
low,  strange  radiance  in  the

air.  At  first  he  could  only  see  hands   —  his,  clasping  Ben's  on  
one  side  and  Mike's  on  the
other.  Then  he  realized  he  could  see  the  buttons  on  Richie's  muddy  
shirt  and  the  Captain
Midnight  ring  —  just  some  junky  cereal-box prize  —  that  Eddie  liked  
to  wear  on  his  little
finger.

'Can  you  guys  see?'  Stan  asked,  coming  to  a  stop.  The  others  
stopped,  too.  Bill  looked
around,  first  aware  that  he  could  see  —  a  little ,  anyway  —  and  
then  that  the  tunnel  had
widened  out  amazingly.  They  were  now  in  a  curved  chamber  easily  as  
big  as  the  Sunnier
Tunnel in Boston. Bigger, he amended as he looked around with a growing sense 
of awe.


They  craned  their  necks  back  to  see  the  ceiling,  which  was  now  
fifty  feet  or  more  above
them,  and  held  up  by  outcurving  buttresses  of  stone  like  ribs.  Nets  
of  dirty  cobweb  hung
between  them.  The  floor  was  now  stone-flagged,  but  overlaid  with  such 
 a  drift  of  ancient  dirt
that  the  quality  of  their  footfalls  had  never  changed.  The  up-curving 
 walls  were  easily  fifty
feet away on either side.

'Waterworks must have really gone crazy down here,' Richie said, and laughed 
uneasily.
'Looks like a cathedral,' Beverly said softly.

'Where's the light coming from?' Ben wanted to know.
'Coming r-right out of the w-w-walls, looks l-like,' Bill said.
'I  don't like it,' Stan said.

'Let's guh-go. H-H-Henry'll be breathing d-d-down our nuh-necks — '

A  loud,  braying  cry  split  the  gloom,  and  then  the  ruffling,  heavy  
thunder  of  wings.  A  shape
came cruising out of the dark, one eye glaring — the other was a dark lamp.

'The bird!' Stan screamed. 'Look out, it's the bird!'

It  dived  at  them  like  an  obscene  fighter-plane,  Its  plated  orange  
beak  opening  and closing
to reveal the pink inner lining of Its mouth, plush as a satin pillow in a 
coffin.

It went straight for Eddie.

Its beak raked his shoulder and he felt pain sink into his flesh like acid. 
Blood flowed down
his  chest.  He  cried  out  as  the  backwash  of  Its  beating  wings  blew  
noxious  tunnel  air  in  his
face.  It  wheeled  back,  Its  eye  glaring  malevolently,  rolling  in  Its  
socket,  blurring  only  as  Its
nictitating  eyelid  jittered  down  momentarily  to  cover  the  eye  with  
tissue-thin film.  Its  claws
sought  Eddie,  who  ducked,  screaming.  They  razored  through  the  back  of 
 his  shirt,  cutting  it
open,  drawing  shallow  scarlet  lines  along  his  shoulderblades.  Eddie  
yelled  and  tried  to  crawl
away but the bird wheeled back again.

Mike  broke  forward,  digging  in  his  pocket.  He  came  out  with  a  
one-blade  Buck  knife.  As
the  bird  dived  on  Eddie  again,  he  swept  it  in  a  quick,  tight  arc  
across  one  of  the  bird's  talons.
It  cut  deep,  and  blood  poured  out.  The  bird  banked  away  and  then  
came  back,  folding  Its
wings,  diving  in  like  a  bullet.  Mike  fell  to  one  side  at  the  last  
moment,  slashing  upward  with
the Buck knife. He missed, and the bird's claw hit his wrist with such force 
that his hand went
numb  and  tingly  —  the  bruise  that  later  bloomed  there  went  most  of 
the  way  to  his  elbow.
The Buck flew into the dark.

The  bird  came  back,  screeching  triumphantly,  and  Mike  rolled  his  body 
 over  Eddie's  and
waited for the worst.

Stan  walked  forward  toward  the  two  boys  huddled  on  the  floor  as  the 
 bird  returned.  He

stood,  small  and  somehow  trim  in  spite  of  the  dirt  grimed  into  his  
hands  and  arms  and  pants
and  shirt,  and  suddenly  held  his  hands  out  in  a  curious  gesture  —  
palms  up,  fingers  down.
The  bird  uttered  another  squawk  and  sheared  off,  bulleting  by  Stan,  
missing  him  by  inches,
lifting  his  hair  and  then  dropping  it  in  the  buffeting  wake  of  Its  
passage.  He  turned  in  a  tight
circle to face Its return.

'I  believe  in  scarlet  tanagers  even  though  I  never  saw  one,'  he  
said  in  a  high  clear  voice.
The  bird  screamed  and  banked  away  as  if  he'd  shot  at  it.  'Same  
with  vultures,  and  the  New
Guinea  mudlark  and  the  flamingos  of  Brazil.'  The  bird  screamed,  
circled,  and  suddenly  flew
on    up  the  tunnel,  squawking.  'I believe in the golden bald eagle!'  Stan 
screamed after it.  'And
I think there really might be a phoenix somewhere! But I don't believe in you, 
so get the fuck
out of here! Get out! Hit the road, Jack!'

He stopped then, and the silence seemed very large.

Bill,  Ben,  and  Beverly  went  to  Mike  and  Eddie;  they  helped  Eddie  to 
 his  feet  and  Bill
looked at the cuts. 'Nuh-not d-d-deep,' he said. 'But I b-bet they h-hurt like 
h-h-hell.'


'It  tore  my  shirt  to  pieces,  Big  Bill.'  Eddie's  cheeks  glistened  
with  tears,  and  he  was
wheezing  again.  The  bellowing  barbarian's  voice  was  gone;  it  was  hard 
 to  believe  it  had  ever
been there. 'What am I going to tell my mom?'

Bill  smiled  a  little.  'Why  d-d-don't  we  wuh-worry  about  that  when  we 
 g-g-g-get  out  of
here? Give yourself a bluh-hast, E-Eddie.'

Eddie did, inhaling deeply and then wheezing.

'That was great, man,' Richie told Stan. 'That was just frockin greatl'

Stan  was  shivering  all  over.  'There's  no  bird  like  that,  that's  all. 
 There  never  has  been  and
there never will be.'

'We're  coming!'   Henry  screamed  from  behind  them.  His  voice  was  
utterly  demented.  He
was  laughing  and  howling  now.  He  sounded  like  something  that  has  
crawled  out  of  a  crack  in
the  roof  of  hell.  'Me'n  Belch!  We're  coming  and  we'll  get  you  
little  punks!  You  can't  get
away!'

Bill shouted: 'G-G-Get out, H-H Henry! W-W-While there's still tuh-tuh-time!'

Henry's  response  was  a  hollow,  inarticulate  scream.  They  heard  a  
hustle  of  footsteps  and  in
a  burst  of  comprehension  Bill  understood  Henry's  whole  purpose:  he  
was  real,  he  was  mortal,
he  could  not  be  stopped  by  an  aspirator  or  a  bird-book. Magic would 
not work on Henry. He
was too stupid.

'C-C-Come oh-on. We guh-gotta stay a-a-ahead of h-h-him.'

They  went  on  again,  holding  hands,  Eddie's  tattered  shirt  flapping  
behind  him.  The  light
grew  brighter,  the  tunnel  ever  huger.  As  it  canted  downward,  the  
ceiling  flew  away  above
until they could barely see it. It now seemed to them that they were not 
walking in a tunnel at
all  but  making  their  way  through  a  titanic  underground  courtyard,  the 
 approach  to  some
cyclopean  castle.  The  light  from  the  walls  had  become  a  running  
green-yellow fire. The smell
was  stronger,  and  they  began  to  pick  up  a  vibration  that  might  have 
 been  real  or  might  have
been only in their minds. It was steady and rhythmic.

It was a heartbeat.

'It ends up ahead!' Beverly cried. 'Look! It's a blank wall!'

But  as  they  drew  closer,  antlike  now  on  this  great  floor  of  dirty  
stone  blocks,  each  block
bigger  than  Bassey  Park,  it  seemed,  they  saw  that  the  wall  was  not  
entirely  blank  after  all.  It
was  broken  by  a  single  door.  And  although  the  wall  itself  towered  
hundreds  of  feet  above
them,  the  door  was  very  small.  It  was  no  more  than  three  feet  
high,  a  door  of  the  sort  you
might  see  in  a  fairytale  book,  made  of  stout  oaken  boards  bound  
with  iron  strips  in  an  X-
pattern. It was, they all realized at once, a door made only for children.

Ghostly,  in  his  mind,  Ben  heard  the  librarian  reading  to  the  little  
ones:  Who  is  that  trip-
trapping  upon  my  bridge?  The  children  lean  forward,  all  the  old  
fascination  glistening  in  their
eyes: will the monster be bested . . . or will It feed?

There was a mark on the door, and heaped at its foot was a pile of bones. Small 
bones. The
bones of God alone knew how many children.

They had come to the place of It.

The mark on the door, then: what was that?

Bill marked it as a paper boat.


Stan saw it as a bird rising toward the sky — a phoenix, perhaps.

Michael  saw  a  hooded  face   —  that  of  crazy  Butch  Bowers,  perhaps,  
if  it  could  only  be
seen.

Richie saw two eyes behind a pair of spectacles.

Beverly saw a hand doubled up into a fist.

Eddie  believed  it  to  be  the  face  of  the  leper,  all  sunken  eyes  and 
 wrinkled  snarling  mouth

— all disease, all sickness, was stamped into that face.

Ben Hanscom saw a tattered pile of wrappings and seemed to smell old sour 
spices.

Later,  arriving  at  that  same  door  with  Belch's  screams  still  echoing  
in  his  ears,  alone  at  the
end of it, Henry Bowers would see it as the moon, full, ripe . . . and black.

'I'm scared, Bill,' Ben said in a wavering voice. 'Do we have to?'

Bill  toed  the  bones,  and  suddenly  scattered  them  in  a  powdery,  
raiding  drift  with  one  foot.
He  was  scared,  too  .  .  .  but  there  was  George  to  consider.  It   
had ripped off George's arm.
Were those small and fragile bones among these? Yes, of course they were.

They  were  here  for  the  owners  of  the  bones,  George  and  all  the  
others  —  those who had
been  brought  here,  those  who  might  be  brought  here,  those  who  had 
been left in other places
simply to rot.

'We have to,' Bill said.

'What if it's locked?' Beverly asked in a small voice.

'Ih-It's  not  l-locked,'  Bill  said,  and  then  told  her  what  he  knew  
from  deeper  inside:  'Pluh-
haces like this are n-never luh-luh-locked.'

He  placed  the  tented  fingers  of  his  right  hand  on  the  door  and  
pushed.  It  swung  open  on  a

flood   of   sick   yellow-green   light.   That   zoo   smell   wafted   out   
at   them,   incredibly   strong,
incredibly potent now.

One by one they passed through the fairytale door, and into the lair of It. 
Bill

7

In the Tunnels / 4:59 A.M.

stopped  so  suddenly  that  the  others  piled  up  like  freight-cars  when  
the  engine  suddenly
comes to a panic-stop. 'What is it?' Ben called.

'Ih-Ih-It was h-h-here. The Eh-Eh-Eye. D-Do you r-r-remember?'

'I  remember,'  Richie  said.  'Eddie  stopped  it  with  his  aspirator.  By  
pretending  it  was  acid.
He  said  something  about  some  dance.  Pretty  chuckalicious,  but  I  can't 
 remember  exactly  what
it was.'

'It  d-d-doesn't  m-m-matter.  We  won't  suh-see  anything  we  saw  
b-b-before,'  Bill  said.  He
struck  a  light  and  looked  around  at  the  others.  Their  faces  were  
luminous in the glow of the
match, luminous and mystic. And they seemed very young. 'H-H-How you guys 
d-doin?'

'We're  okay,  Big  Bill,'  Eddie  said,  but  his  face  was  drawn  with  
pain.  Bill's  makeshift  splint

was coming apart. 'How bout you?'

'Oh-Oh-kay,'   Bill   said,   and   shook   out   the   match   before   his   
face   could   tell   them   any
different story.

'How  did  it  happen?'  Beverly  asked  him,  touching  his  arm  in  the  
dark.  'Bill,  how  could  she

— ?'

'B-B-Because  I  muh-hentioned  the  n-name  of  the  town.  Sh-She  c-c-came  
ah-hafter  m-m-
me.  Even  wh-when  I  was  d-d-doing  it,  suh-suh-homething  ih-hinside  was  
t-t-telling  me  to  sh-
sh-shut  uh-up.  B-But  I  d-d-didn't  luh-luh-histen.'  He  shook  his  head  
helplessly  in  the  dark.


'But  even  if  sh-she  came  to  Duh-Duh-Derry,  I  d-d-don't  uh-hunderstand  
h-h-how  she  c-could
have guh-hotten d-d-down h-here. If H-H-Henry dih-didn't b-b-bring her, then 
who d-did?'

'It,'  Ben  said.  'It  doesn't  have  to  look  bad,  we  know  that.  It  
could  have  shown  up  and  said
you were in trouble. Taken her here in order to . . . to fuck you up, I 
suppose. To kill our guts.
Cause that's what you always were, Big Bill. Our guts.'

'Tom?' Beverly said in a low, almost musing voice.

'W-W-Who? Bill struck another match.

She  was  looking  at  him  with  a  kind  of  desperate  honesty.  'Tom.  My  
husband.  He  knew,
too.  At  least,  I  think  I  mentioned  the  name  of  the  town  to  him,  
the  way  you  mentioned  it  to
Audra. I . . . I don't know if it took or not. He was pretty angry with me at 
the time.'

'Jesus,  what  is  this,  some  kind  of  soap  opera  where  everybody  turns  
up  sooner  or  later?'
Richie said.

'Not  a  soap  opera,'  Bill  said,  sounding  sick,  'a  show.  Like  the  
circus.  Bev  here  went  and
married  Henry  Bowers.  When  she  left,  why  wouldn't  he  come  here?  
After  all,  the  real  Henry
did.'

'No,' Beverly said. 'I didn't marry Henry. I married my father.'
'If he beat on you, what's the difference?' Eddie asked.

'C-C-Come around me,' Bill said. 'Muh-muh-move in.'

They  did.  Bill  reached  out  to  either  side  and  found  Eddie's  good  
hand  and  one  of  Richie's
hands.  Soon  they  stood  in  a  circle,  as  they  had  done  once  before  
when  their  number  was
greater.  Eddie  felt  someone  put  an  arm  around  his  shoulders.  The  
feeling  was  warm  and
comforting and deeply familiar.

Bill  felt  the  sense  of  power  that  he  remembered  from  before,  but  
understood  with  some
desperation  that  things  really  had  changed.  The  power  was  nowhere  
near  as  strong  —  it
struggled  and  flickered  like  a  candle-flame  in  foul  air.  The  darkness 
 seemed  thicker  and
closer  to  them,  more  triumphant.  And  he  could  smell  It.  Down this 
passageway,  he thought,
and not so terribly far, is a door with a mark on it. What was behind that 
door? It's the one
thing I still can't remember. I can remember making my fingers stiff, because 
they wanted to
tremble, and I can remember pushing the door open. I can even remember the 
flood of light
that  streamed out and how it seemed almost alive, as if it wasn't just light 
but fluorescent
snakes. I remember the smell, like the monkey-house in a big zoo, but even 
worse. And then . .

. nothing.

'Do a-a-any of y-y-y-you rem-m-member what It really w-w-was?'
'No,' Eddie said.

'I  think  .  .  .  '  Richie  began,  and  then  Bill  could  almost  feel  
him  shake  his  head  in  the  dark.
'No.'

'No,' Beverly said.

'Huh-uh.' That was Ben. 'That's the one thing I still can't remember. What It 
was . . . or how
we fought It.'

'Chüd,' Beverly said. That's how we fought it. But I don't remember what that 
means.'
'Stand by m-me,' Bill said, 'and I-I'll stuh-stuh-hand by y-y-you guys.'

'Bill,' Ben said. His voice was very calm. 'Something is coming.'

Bill listened.  He  heard  dragging,  shambling  footsteps  approaching  them  
in  the  dark  .  .  .  and
he was afraid.

'A-A-Audra?' he called . . . and knew already that it was not her.
Whatever was shambling toward them drew closer.

Bill struck a light.

8


Derry / 5:00 A.M.

The  first  wrong  thing  happened  on  that  late-spring  day  in  1985  two  
minutes  before  official
sunrise.  To  understand  how  wrong  it  was  one  would  have  to  have  
known  two  facts  that  were
known  to  Mike  Hanlon  (who  lay  unconscious  in  the  Derry  Home  Hospital 
 as  the  sun  came
up),  both  concerning  the  Grace  Baptist  Church,  which  had  stood  on  
the  corner  of  Witcham
and  Jackson  since  1897.  The  church  was  topped  with  a  slender  white  
spire  which  was  the
apotheosis  of  every  Protestant  church-steeple  in  New  England.  There  
were  clock-faces  on  all
four  sides  of  the  steeple -base,  and  the  clock  itself  had  been  
constructed  and  shipped  from
Switzerland  in  the  year  1898.  The  only  one  like  it  stood  in  the  
town  square  of  Haven  Village,
forty  miles away.

Stephen  Bowie,  a  timber  baron  who  lived  on  West  Broadway,  donated  
the  clock  to  the
town  at  a  cost  of  some  $17,000.  Bowie  could  afford  it.  He  was  a  
devout  churchgoer  and
deacon  for  forty  years  (during  several  of  those  later  years  he  was  
also  president  of  Derry's
Legion of  White  Decency  chapter).  In  addition,  he  was  known  for  his  
devout  layman  sermons
on Mother's Day, which he always referred to reverently as Mother's Sunday.

From  the  time  of  its  installation  until  May  31st,  1985,  that  clock  
had  faithfully  chimed  each
hour  and  each  half  —   with  one  notable  exception.  On  the  day  of  
the  explosion  at  the
Kitchener  Ironworks  it  had  not  chimed  the  noon-hour.  Residents  
believed  that  the  Reverend
Jollyn  had  silenced  the  clock  to  show  that  the  church  was  in  
mourning  for  the  dead children,
and  Jollyn  never  disabused  them  of  this  notion,  although  it  was  not  
true.  The  clock  had
simply not chimed.

Nor did it chime the hour of five on the morning of May 31st, 1985.

At  that  moment,  all  over  Derry,  old-timers  opened  their  eyes  and  sat 
 up,  disturbed  for  no
reason  they  could  put  their  fingers  on.  Medicines  were  gulped,  false  
teeth  put  in,  pipes  and
cigars lit.

The old folks stood a watch.

One  of  them  was  Norbert  Keene,  now  in  his  nineties.  He  hobbled  to  
the  window  and
looked  out  at  a  darkening  sky.  The  weather  report  the  night  before  
had  called  for  clear  skies,
but his bones told him it was going to rain, and hard. He felt scared, deep 
inside him; in some
obscure  way  he  felt  threatened,  as  if  a  poison  were  working  its  way 
 relentlessly toward his
heart.  He  thought  randomly  of  the  day  the  Bradley  Gang  had  ridden  
heedlessly  into  Derry,
into  the  sights  of  seventy-five  pistols  and  rifles.  That  kind  of  
work  left  a  man  feeling  kind  of
warm  and  lazy  inside,  like  everything  was  .  .   .  was  somehow  
confirmed.  He couldn't put it
any  better  than  that,  even  to  himself.  Work  like  that  left  a  man  
feeling  like  he  maybe  might
live  forever,  and  Norbert  Keene  damn  near  had.  Ninety-six years old 
come June 24th, and he
still walked three miles eve ry day. But now he felt scared.

'Those  kids,'  he  said,  looking  out  his  window,  unaware  he  had  
spoken.  'What  is  it  with
them damn kids? What they monkeying around with this time?'

Egbert   Thoroughgood,   ninety-nine,   who   had   been   in   the   Silver   
Dollar   when   Claude
Heroux tuned up his axe and played 'The Dead March' for four men on it, awoke 
at the same

moment, sat up, and let out a rusty scream that no one heard. He had dreamed of 
Claude, only
Claude  had  been  coming  after   him,  and  the  axe  had  come  down,  and a 
moment after it did
Thoroughgood had seen his own severed hand twitching and curling on the 
counter.

Something wrong,  he  thought  in  his  muddy  way,  frightened  and  shaking  
all  over  in  his  pee-
stained longjohns. Something dreadful wrong.

Dave  Gardener,  who  had  discovered  George  Denbrough's  mutilated  body  in 
 October  of
1957  and  whose  son  had  discovered  the  first  victim  of  this  new  
cycle  earlier  in  the  spring,
opened  his  eyes  on  the  stroke  of  five  and  thought,  even  before  
looking  at  the  clock  on  the


bureau:  Grace  Church  clock  didn't  chime  the  hour  .  .  .  What's  
wrong?   He  felt  a  large  ill-
defined  fright.  Dave  had  prospered  over  the  years;  in  1965  he  had  
purchased  The  Shoeboat,
and  now  there  was  a  second  Shoeboat  at  the  Derry  Mall  and  a  third  
up  in  Bangor. Suddenly
all  of  those  things  —  things  he  had  spent  his  life  working  for  —  
seemed in jeopardy.  From
what? he cried to himself, looking at his sleeping wife.  From what,  why you 
so goddam antsy
just because that clock didn't chime? But there was no answer.

He  got  up  and  went  to  the  window,  hitching  at  the  waistband  of  his 
 pyjamas.  The  sky  was
restless  with  clouds  racing  in  from  the  west,  and  Dave's  disquiet  
grew.  For  the  first  time  in  a
very  long  while  he  found  himself  thinking  of  the  screams  that  had  
brought  him  to  his  porch
twenty-seven  years  ago,  to  see  that writhing  figure  in  the  yellow  
rainslicker.  He  looked  at  the
approaching clouds and thought: We're in danger. All of its. Derry.

Chief  Andrew  Rademacher,  who  really  believed  he  had  tried  his  best  
to  solve  the  new
string  of  child-murders  that  had  plagued  Derry,  stood  on  the  porch  
of  his  house,  thumbs  in  his
Sam  Browne  belt,  looking  up  at  the  clouds,  and  felt  the  same  
disquiet.  Something getting
ready  to  happen.  Looks  like  it's  going  to  pour  buckets, for one thing. 
But that's not all.  He
shuddered . . . and as he stood there on his porch, the smell of the bacon his 
wife was cooking
wafting  out  through  the  screen  door,  the  first  dime-sized  drops  of  
rain  darkened  the  sidewalk
in  front  of  his  pleasant  Reynolds  Street  home  and,  somewhere  just  
over  the  horizon  from
Bassey Park, thunder rumbled.

Rademacher shivered again.

9

George / 5:01 A.M.

Bill held the match up . . . and uttered a long trembling despairing screech.

It   was   George   wavering  up  the  tunnel  toward  him,  George,  still  
dressed  in  his  blood-
spattered  yellow  rainslicker.  One  sleeve  dangled  limp  and  useless.  
George's  face  was  white  as
cheese and his eyes were shiny silver. They fixed on Bill's own.

'My boat!' Georgie's lost voice  rose, wavering, in the tunnel.  'I can't find 
it, Bill, I've looked
everywhere and I can't find it and now I'm dead and it's your fault your fault 
YOUR FAULT

— '

'Juh-Juh-Georgie!' Bill shrieked. He felt his mind tottering, ripping free of 
its moorings.

George   stumble-staggered  toward  him  and  now  his  one  remaining  arm  
rose  toward  Bill,
the white hand at the end of it hooked into a claw. The nails were dirty and 
grasping.

'Your fault,'  George  whispered,  and  grinned.  His  teeth  were  fangs;  
they  opened and closed
slowly, like the teeth in a beartrap. 'You sent me out and it's all . . . your 
. . . fault.'

'Nuh-Nuh-No, Juh Juh-Georgie!' Bill cried. 'I dih-dih-didn't nuh-hun-nuh-know — 
'

'Kill  you!'  George  cried,  and  a  mixture  of  doglike  sounds  came out of 
that fanged mouth:
yips,  yelps,  howls.  A  kind  of  laughter.  Bill  could  smell  him  now,  
could  smell  George  rotting.
It  was  a  cellar-smell,  squirmy,  the  smell  of  some  final  monster  
standing  slumped  and  yellow-
eyed in the corner, waiting to unzip some small boy's guts.

George's  teeth  gnashed  together.  The  sound  was  like  billiard  balls  
clicking  off  one  another.
Yellow  pus  began  to  leak  from  his  eyes  and  dribble  down  his  face  . 
 .  .  and  the  match  went
out.

Bill  felt  his  friends  disappear  —  they  were  running,  of  course  they  
were,  they  were  leaving
him  alone.  They  were  cutting  him  off,  as  his  parents  had  cut  him  
off  because  George  was
right:  it  was  all  his  fault.  Soon  he  would  feel  that  single  hand  
seize  his  throat,  soon  he  would
feel  those  fangs  pulling  him  open,  and  that  would  be  right.  That  
would  be  only  just.  He  had


sent  George  out  to  die  and  he  had  spent  his  whole  adult  life  
writing  about  the  horror  of  that
betrayal  —  oh,  he  had  put  many  faces  on  it,  almost  as  many  faces  
as  It  had  put  on  for  their
benefit,  but  the  monster  at  the  bottom  of  everything  was  only  
George,  running  out  into  the
receding flood with his paraffin-coated paper boat. Now would come the 
atonement.

'You  deserve  to  die  for  killing  me,'  George  whispered.  He  was  very  
close  now. Bill closed
his eyes.

Then  yellow  light  splashed  the  tunnel  and  he  opened  them.  Richie  was 
 holding  up  a  match.
'Fight It, Bill!' Richie shouted. 'God's sake! Fight It!'

What  are  you  doing  here?  He  looked  at  them,  bewildered.  They  hadn't  
run  after all. How

could  that  be?  How  could  that  be  after  they  had  seen  how  foully  he 
 had  murdered  his  own
brother?

'Fight It!' Beverly was screaming. 'Oh Bill, fight It! Only you can do this 
one! Please — '

George  was  less  than  five  feet  away  now.  He  suddenly  stuck  his  
tongue  out  at  Bill.  It  was
crawling with white fungoid growths. Bill screamed again.

'Kill It, Bill!' Eddie shouted. 'That's not your brother! Kill It while it's 
small! Kill It NOW!'

George  glanced  at  Eddie,  cutting  his  shiny-silver  eyes  that  way  for  
just  a  moment,  and
Eddie  reeled  back  and  struck  the  wall  as  if  he  had  been  pushed.  
Bill  stood  mesmerized,
watching  his  brother  come  toward  him,  George  again  after  all  these  
years,  it  was  George  at
the  end  as  it  had  been  George  at  the  beginning,  oh  yes,  and  he  
could  hear  the  creak  of
George's  yellow  slicker  as  George  closed  the  distance,  he  could  hear  
the  jingle  of  the  buckles
on  his  overshoes  and  he  could  smell  something  like  wet  leaves,  as  
if  underneath  the  slicker
George's  body  was  made  of them, as if the feet inside George's galoshes 
were leaf-feet, yes, a
leaf-man, that was it, that was George, he was a rotted balloon face and a body 
made of dead
leaves, the kind that sometimes choke the sewers after a flood.

Dimly he heard Beverly shriek.

(he thrusts his fists)
'Bill, please Bill — '

(against the posts and still insists)

'We'll  look  for  my  boat  together,'  George  said.  Thick  yellow  pus,  
mock  tears,  rolled  down
his  cheeks.  He  reached  for  Bill  and  his  head  cocked  sideward,  his  
teeth  peeling  back  from
those fangs.

(he sees the ghosts he sees the ghosts HE SEES)

'We'll  find  it,'  George  said  and  Bill  could  smell  Its  breath  and  it 
 was  a  smell  like  exploded
animals  lying  on  the  highway  at  midnight.  As  George's  mouth  yawned,  
he  could  see  things
squirming  around  inside  there.  'It's  still  down  here,  everything  
floats  down  here,  we'll  float,
Bill,   we'll all float — '

George's fishbelly hand closed on Bill's neck.

(HE SEES THE GHOSTS WE SEE THE GHOSTS THEY WE YOU SEE THE GHOSTS — )

George's contorted face drifted toward Bill's neck.

' — float — '

'He  thrusts  his  fists  against  the  posts!'  Bill cried. His voice was 
deeper, hardly his own at
all,  and  in  a  searing  flash  of  memory  Richie  remembered  that  Bill  
only  stuttered  in  his  own
voice: when he pretended to be someone else, he never did.

The George-thing recoiled, hissing, Its hand going to Its face in a warding-off 
gesture.
'That's it!' Richie screamed deliriously. 'You got It, Bill! Get It! Get It! 
Get It!'

'He thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts!' 
Bill thundered. He

advanced  on  the  George-thing.  'You're  no ghost!  George  knows I didn't 
mean for him to die!
My folks were wrong! They took it out on me and that was wrong! Do you hear 
me?'


The  George-thing  abruptly  turned,  squealing  like  a  rat.  It  began  to  
run  and  ripple  under  the
yellow  slicker.  The  slicker  itself  seemed  to  be  dripping,  running  in  
bright  blots  of  yellow.  It
was losing Its shape, becoming amorphous.

'He  thrusts  his  fists  against  the  posts,  you  son  of  a  bitch!'  Bill 
Denbrough screamed,  'and
still  insists  he  sees  the  ghosts!'  He  leaped  at  It  and  his  fingers  
snagged  in  the  yellow
rainslicker  that  was  no  longer  a  rainslicker.  What  he  grabbed  felt  
like  some  strange  warm
taffy   that  melted  under  his  fingers  as  soon  as  he  had  closed  his  
fist  around  it.  He  fell  to  his
knees.  Then  Richie  yelled  as  the  guttering  match  burned  his  fingers  
and  they  were  plunged
into darkness again.

Bill  felt  something  begin  to  grow  in  his  chest,  something  hot  and  
choking  and  as  painful  as
fiery  nettles.  He  gripped  his  knees  and  drew  them  up  to  his  chin,  
hoping  it  would  stop  the
pain,  or  perhaps  ease  it;  he  was  dimly  thankful  for  the  dark,  glad  
that  the  others  couldn't  see
this agony.

He  heard  a  sound  escape  him  —  a  wavering  moan.  There  was  a  second; 
 a  third.  'George!'

he cried. George, I'm sorry! I never meant for anything b-b-b-bad to 
huh-huh-happen!'

Perhaps  there  was  something  else  to  say,  but  he  could  not  say  it.  
He  was  sobbing  then,
lying  on  his  back  with  one  arm  over  his  eyes,  remembering  the  boat, 
 remembering  the  steady
beat  of  the  rain  against  his  bedroom  windows,  remembering  the  
medicines  and  the  tissues  on
the  nighttable,  the  faint  ache  of  fever  in  his  head  and  in  his  
body,  remembering  George,  most
of all that: remembering George, George in his yellow hooded slicker.

'George, I'm sorry!'  he  cried  through  his  tears.  'I'm  sorry,  I'm  
sorry,  please,  I'm  suh-suh-
SORRY — '

And  then  they  were  around  him, his friends, and no one lit a match, and 
someone held him,
he  didn't  know  who,  Beverly  maybe,  or  maybe  Ben,  or  Richie.  They  
were  with  him,  and  for
that little while the darkness was kind.

10

Derry / 5:30 A.M.

By  5:30  it  was  raining  hard.  The  weather   forecasters  on  the  Bangor  
radio  stations  expressed
mild  surprise  and  tendered  mild  apologies  to  all  the  people  who  had  
made  plans  for  picnics
and  outings  on  the  basis  of  yesterday's  forecasts.  Tough  break,  
folks;  just  one  of  those  odd
weather patterns that sometimes developed in the Penobscot Valley with 
startling suddenness.

On    WZON,    meteorologist    Jim    Witt    described    what    he    
called    an    'extraordinarily
disciplined'  low-pressure  system.  That  was  putting  it  mildly.  
Conditions  went  from  cloudy  in
Bangor   to  showery  in  Hampden  to  drizzly  in  Haven  to  moderate  rain  
in  Newport.  But  in
Derry,  only  thirty  miles  from  downtown  Bangor,  it  was  pouring.  
Travellers  on  Route  7  found
themselves   moving   through   water   that   was   eight   inches   deep   in 
  places,   and   beyond   the
Rhulin  Farms  a  plugged  culvert  in  a  dip  had  covered  the  highway  
with  so  much  water  that  the
highway  was  actually  impassable.  By  six  that  morning  the  Derry  
Highway  Patrol  had  orange
DETOUR signs on both sides of the dip.

Those  who  waited  under  the  shelter  on Main Street for the first bus of 
the day to take them

to  work  stood  looking  over  the  railing  at  the  Canal,  where  the  
water  was  ominously  high  in  its
concrete  channel.  There  would  be  no  flood,  of  course;  all  agreed  on  
that.  The water was still
four  feet  below  the  high-water  mark  of  1977,  and  there  had  been  no  
flood  that  year.  But  the
rain  came  down  with  steady  pounding  persistence,  and  thunder  grumbled  
in  the  low  clouds.
Water ran down Up-Mile Hill in streams and roared in the stormdrains and 
sewers.

No flood, they agreed, but there was a patina of unease on every face.


At  5:45  a  power-transformer  on  a  pole  beside  the  abandoned  Tracker  
Brothers'  Truck
Depot  exploded  in  a  flash  of  purple  light,  spraying  twisted  chunks  
of  metal  onto  the  shingled
roof.   One  of  the  flying  chunks  of  metal  severed  a  high-tension  
wire,  which  also  fell  on  the
roof,  spluttering  and  twisting  like  a  snake,  shooting  an  almost  
liquid  stream  of  sparks.  The
roof  caught  fire  in  spite  of  the  downpour,  and  soon  the  depot  was  
blazing.  The  power-cable
tumbled  from  the  roof  to  the  weedy  verge  that  led  around  to  the  
lot  where  small  boys  had
once  played  baseball.  The  Derry  Fire  Department  rolled  for  the  first  
time  that  day  at  6:02

A.M.  and arrived at Tracker Brothers' at 6:09. One of the first firemen off 
the truck was Calvin
Clark,  one  of  the  Clark  twins  with  whom  Ben,  Beverly,  Richie,  and  
Bill  had  gone  to  school.
His  third  step  away  from  the  truck  brought  the  sole  of  his  leather  
boot  down  on  the  live  line.
Calvin  was  electrocuted  almost  ins tantly.  His  tongue  popped  out  of  
his  mouth  and  his  rubber
fireman's coat began to smolder. He smelled like burning tires at the town 
dump.

At 6:05  A.M.,  residents  of  Merit  Street  in  the  Old  Cape  felt  
something  that  might have been
an  underground  explosion.  Plates  fell  from  shelves  and  pictures  from  
walls.  At  6:06,  every
toilet   on   Merit   Street   suddenly   exploded   in   a   geyser   of   
shit   and   raw   sewage   as   some
unimaginable  reversal  took  place  in  the  pipes  which  fed  the  holding  
tanks  of  the  new  waste-
treatment  plant  in  the  Barrens.  In  some  cases  these  explosions  were  
strong  enough  to  tear
holes   in  bathroom  ceilings.  A  woman  named  Anne  Stuart  was  killed  
when  an  ancient  gear-
wheel  catapulted  from  her  toilet  along  with  a  gout  of  sewage.  The  
gearwheel  went  through
the  frosted  glass  of  the  shower  door  and  passed  through  her  throat  
like  a  terrible  bullet  as  she
washed  her  hair.  She  was  nearly  decapitated.  The  gear-wheel  was  a  
relic  of  the  Kitchener
Ironworks,  and  had  found  its  way  into  the  sewers  almost  
three-quarters  of  a  century  before.
Another  woman  was  killed  when  the  sudden  violent  reversal  of  sewage,  
driven  by  expanding
methane  gases,  caused  her  toilet  to  explode  like  a  bomb.  The  
unfortunate  woman,  who  was
sitting  on  the  John  at  the  time  and  reading  the  current  Banana 
Republic catalogue, was torn to
pieces.

At  6:19  A.M.,  a  bolt  of  lightning  struck  the  so-called  Kissing  
Bridge,  which  spanned  the
Canal  between  Bassey  Park  and  Derry  High  School.  The  splintered  
pieces  were  thrown  high
into the air and then rained down into the swiftly moving Canal to be carried 
away.

The  wind  was  rising.  At  6:30  A.M .,  the  gauge  in  the  lobby  of  the  
courthouse  building
registered  it  at  just  over  fifteen  miles  an  hour.  By  6:45,  it  had  
risen  to  twenty-four miles an
hour.

At  6:46  A.M.,  Mike  Hanlon  awoke  in  his  room  at  the  Derry  Home  
Hospital.  His  return  to
consciousness was a kind of slow dissolve  —  for a long time he thought he was 
dreaming. If
so,  it  was  an  odd  sort  of  dream  —  an  anxiety  dream,  his  old  psych 
 prof  Doc  Abelson  might
have  called  it.  There  seemed  to  be  no  overt  reason  for  the  anxiety, 
 but  it  was  there  all  the
same; the plain white room seemed to shriek menace.

He  gradually  realized  that  he  was  awake.  The  plain  white  room  was  a 
 hospital  room.
Bottles  hung  over  his  head,  one  full  of  clear  liquid,  the  other  a  
deep  dark  red  one.  Whole
blood. He saw a blank TV set bolted to the wall and became aware of the steady 
sound of rain
beating against the window.

Mike  tried  to  move  his  legs.  One  moved  freely  but  the  other,  his 
right leg, wouldn't move

at all. The feeling in that leg was very faint, and he realized it was tightly 
bandaged.

Little  by  little  it  came  back.  He  had  settled  down  to  write  in  his 
 notebook  and  Henry
Bowers had turned up. A real blast from the past, a golden gasser. There had 
been a fight, and

—

Henry! Where had Henry gone? After the others?

Mike  groped  for  the  call-bell.  It  was  draped  over  the  head  of  the  
bed,  and  he  had  it  in  his
hands  when  the  door  opened.  A  nurse  stood  there.  Two  buttons  of  his 
 white  tunic  were
unbuttoned  and  his  dark  hair  was  mussed,  giving  him  a  rumpled  Ben  
Casey  look.  He  wore  a


Saint  Christopher  medal  around  his  neck.  Even  in  his  soupy,  
only-three-quarters-awake state,
Mike  placed  him  immediately.  In  1958,  a  sixteen-year-old  girl  named  
Cheryl  Lamonica  had
been killed  in  Derry,  killed  by  It.  The  girl  had  had  a  
fourteen-year-old brother named Mark,
and this was him.

'Mark?' he said weakly. 'I have to talk to you.'

'Shhh,' Mark said. His hand was in his pocket. 'No talk.'

He walked into the room, and as he stood at the foot of the bed, Mike saw with 
a hopeless
chill  how  blank  Mark  Lamonica's  eyes  were.  His  head  was  slightly  
cocked,  as  if  hearing
distant music. He took his hand out of his pocket.

There was a syringe in it.

'This will put you to sleep,' Mark said, and began to walk toward the bed.

11

Under the City / 6:49 A.M.

'Shhhhh!'   Bill   cried   suddenly,   although   there   had   been   no   
sound   except   their   own   faint
footsteps.

Richie  struck  a  light.  The  walls  of  the  tunnel  had  moved  away,  and  
the  five  of  them
seemed  very  small  in  this  space  under  the  city.  They  huddled  
together  and  Beverly  felt  a
dreamy  sense  of déjà  vu  as  she  observed  the  gigantic  flagstones  on  
the  floor  and  the  hanging
nets of cobweb. They were close now. Close.

'What do you hear?' she asked Bill, trying to look everywhere as the match in 
Richie's hand
burned   down,   expecting   to   see   some   new   surprise   come   lurching 
  or   flying   out   of   the
darkness.  Rodan,  anyone?  The  alien  from  that  gruesome  movie  with  
Sigourney  Weaver?  A
great  scuttering  rat  with  orange  eyes  and  silver  teeth?  But  there  
was  nothing  — only the dusty
smell of the dark, and, far away, the thunder of running water, as if the 
drains were filling up.

'S-S-Something ruh-ruh-wrong,' Bill said. 'Mike — '
'Mike?' Eddie asked. 'What about Mike?'

'I felt it, too,' Ben said. 'Is it . . . Bill, did he die?'

'No,'  Bill  said.  His  eyes  were  hazy  and  distant,  unemotional  —  all 
of his alarm was in his
tone and the defensive  posture of his body. 'He . . . H-H-He . . . ' He 
swallowed. There was a
click in his throat. His eyes widened 'Oh Oh no — !'

'Bill?' Beverly cried, alarmed. 'Bill, what is it? What — '

'Gruh-gruh-grab my hub-hands!' Bill screamed. 'Kwuh-kwuh-quick!'

Richie  dropped  the  match  and  seized  one  of  Bill's  hands.  Beverly  
grabbed  the  other.  She
groped  with  her  free  hand,  and  Eddie  grasped  it  feebly  with  the  
hand  at  the  end  of  his  broken
arm. Ben grasped his other hand and completed the circle by holding Richie's 
hand.

'Send  him  our  power!'   Bill  cried  in  that  same  strange,  deep  voice.  
'Send  him  our  power,
whatever You are, send him our power! Now! Now! Now!'

Beverly   felt   something   go   out   from   them   and   toward   Mike.   
Her   head   rolled   on   her
shoulders  in  a  kind  of  ecstasy,  and  the  harsh  whistle  of  Eddie's  
breathing  merged  with  the
headlong thunder of water in the drains.

12


'Now,'  Mark  Lamonica  said  in  a  low  voice.  He  sighed  — the sigh of a 
man who feels orgasm
approaching.

Mike  pushed  the  call-button  in  his  hands  again  and  again.  He  could  
hear  it  ringing  at  the
nurses'  station  down  the  hall,  but  no  one  came.  With  a  kind  of  
hellish  second  sight  he
understood   that   the   nurses   were   sitting   around   down   there,   
reading   the   morning   paper,
drinking   coffee,  hearing   his   call-bell   but   not   hearing   it,   
hearing   but   not   responding,   they
would  respond  only  later  when  it  was  all  over,  because  that  was  how 
 things  worked  in  Derry.
In Derry some things were better not seen or heard . . . until they were over.

Mike let the call-button fall from his hands.

Mark  bent  toward  him,  the  tip  of  the  syringe  glittering.  His  Saint  
Christopher  medal  swung
hypnotically back and forth as he drew the sheet down.

'Right there,' he whispered. The sternum.' And sighed again.

Mike  suddenly  felt  power  wash  into  him  —  some  primitive  power  that  
crammed  his  body
like  volts.  He  stiffened,  fingers  splaying  out  as  if  in  a  
convulsion.  His  eyes  widened.  A  grunt
jerked  out  of  him,  and  that  sense  of  dreadful  paralysis  was  driven  
from  him  as  if  by  a
roundhouse slap.

His  right  hand  pistoned  out  toward  the  nighttable.  There  was  a  
plastic  pitcher  there  and  a
heavy   cafeteria -style   water-glass   beside   it.   His   hand   closed   
around   the   glass.   Lamonica
sensed  the  change;  that  dreamy,  pleased ilght  disappeared  from  his  
eyes  and  was  replaced  by
wary  confusion.  He  drew  back  a  bit,  and  then  Mike  brought  the  glass 
 up  and  smashed  it  into
his face.

Lamonica  screamed  and  staggered  backward,  dropping  the  syringe.  His  
hands  went  to  his

spouting face; blood ran down his wrists and splashed on his white tunic.

The power left as suddenly as it had come. Mike looked dully at the shards of 
broken glass
on  the  bed  and  his  hospital  johnny  and  his  own  bleeding  hand.  He  
heard  the  quick,  light
sound of crepe-soled shoes in the hall, approaching.

Now   they   come,   he   thought,   Oh   yes,   now.   And   after   they're   
gone,   who'll   show
up? Who'll show up next?

As  they  burst  into  his  room,  the  nurses  who  had  sat  calmly  on  
station  as  his  call-bell rang

frantically,  Mike  closed  his  eyes  and  prayed  for  it  to  be  over.  He  
prayed  his  friends  were
somewhere under the city, he prayed they were all right, he prayed they would 
end it.

He didn't know exactly Who he prayed to . . . but he prayed nonetheless.

13

Under the City / 6:54 A.M.

'He's a-a-all ruh-right,' Bill said presently.

Ben  didn't  know  how  long  they  had  stood  in  the  darkness,  holding  
hands.  It  seemed  to  him
that he had felt something  —  something from them, from their circle  — go out 
and then come
back. But he did not know where that thing — if it existed at all — had gone, 
or done.

'Are you sure, Big Bill?' Richie asked.

'Y-Y-Yes.'  Bill  released  Richie's  hand  and  Beverly's.  'But  we  h-have  
to  finish  this  as  kwuh-
quick as we c-can. C-Come oh-oh-on.'

They  went  on,  Richie  or  Bill  periodically  lighting  matches.   We  don't 
 have  so  much  as  a

pea-shooter among us,  Ben thought.  But that's part of it, too, isn't it? 
Chüd. What does that
mean? What was It, exactly? What was Its final face? And even if we didn't kill 
It, we hurt It.
How did we do that?


The  chamber  they  walked  through  —  it  could  no  longer  be  called  a  
tunnel   —  grew larger
and   larger.   Their   footfalls   echoed.   Ben   remembered   the   smell,   
that   thick   zoo   smell.   He
became  aware  that  the  matches  were  no  longer  necessary  —  there was 
light now, light of a
sort:   a  ghastly  effulgence  that  was  growing  steadily  stronger.  In  
that  marshy  light,  his  friends
all looked like walking corpses.

'Wall up ahead, Bill,' Eddie said.
'I nuh-nuh-know.'

Ben felt his heart begin to pick up speed. There was a sour taste in his mouth 
and his head
had begun to ache. He felt slow and frightened. He felt fat.

'The door,' Beverly whispered.

Yes,  here  it  was.  Once,  twenty-seven years before, they had been able  to 
pass through that
door  by  doing  no  more  than  ducking  their  heads.  Now  they  would  have 
 to  duck-walk their
way  through,  or  crawl  on  hands  and  knees.  They  had  grown;  here  was  
final  proof,  if  final
proof were needed.

The  pulse-points  in  Ben's  neck  and  wrists  felt  hot  and  bloody;  his  
heart  had  picked  up  a
light  and  rapid  flutter  that  was  close  to  arrhythmia.  Pigeon-pulse,  
he  thought  randomly,  and
licked his lips.

Bright  greenish-yellow  light  flooded  out  from  under  the  door;  it  shot 
 through  the  ornate
keyhole in a twisting shaft that looked almost thick enough to cut.

The  mark  was  on  the  door,  and  again  they  all  saw  something  
different  in  that  strange
device.  Beverly  saw  Tom's  face.  Bill  saw  Audra's  severed  head  with  
blank  eyes  that  stared  at
him  in  dreadful  accusation.  Eddie  saw  a  grinning  skull  poised  over  
two  crossed  bones,  the
symbol  for  poison.  Richie  saw  the  bearded  face  of  a  degenerate  Paul  
Bunyan,  eyes  narrowed
to killer's slits. And Ben saw Henry Bowers.

'Bill, are we strong enough?' he asked. 'Can we do this?'
'I duh-hon't nuh-nuh-know,' Bill said.

'What if it's locked?' Beverly asked in a small voice. Tom's face mocked her.

'Ih-It's  not,'  Bill  said.  'Pluh-haces  like  this  are  n-never  
luh-luh-locked.'  He  placed  the  tented
fingers of his right hand on the door  — he had to bend over to do it  — and 
pushed. It swung
open  on  a  flood  of  sick  yellow-green  light.  That  zoo  smell  wafted  
out  at  them,  the  smell  of
the past become the present, horribly alive, obscenely vital.

Roll,  wheel,  Bill  thought  randomly,  and  looked  around  at  them.  Then  
he  dropped  to  his
hands   and   knees.   Beverly   followed,   then   Richie,   then   Eddie.   
Ben   came   last,   his   flesh
crawling  at  the  feel  of  the  ancient  grit  on  the  floor.  He  passed  
through  the  portal,  and  as  he
straightened  up  in  the  weird  glow  of  fire  crawling  up  and  down  the  
dripping  stone  walls  in
snakes of light, the last memory socked home with the force of a psychic 
battering ram.

He  cried  out,  staggering  back,  one  hand  going  to  his  head,  and  his  
first  incoherent thought
was No wonder Stan committed suicide! Oh God, I wish I had!  He saw the same 
expressions
of  stunned  horror  and  dawning  realization  on  the  faces  of  the  others 
 as  the  last  key  turned  in
the last lock.

Then  Beverly  was  shrieking,  clinging  to  Bill,  as  It  raced  down  the  
gossamer  curtain  of  Its
webbing,  a  nightmare  Spider  from  beyond  time  and  space,  a  Spider  
from  beyond  the  fevered
imaginings of whatever inmates may live in the deepest depths of hell.

No, Bill thought coldly, not a Spider either, not really, but this shape isn't 
one It picked out
of our minds; it's just the closest our minds can come to

(the deadlights)

whatever It really is.

It  was  perhaps  fifteen  feet  high  and  as  black  as  a  moonless  night.  
Each  of  Its  legs  was as
thick  as  a  muscle-builder's  thigh.  Its  eyes  were  bright  malevolent  
rubies,  bulging  from  sockets
filled  with  some  dripping  chromium-colored  fluid.  Its  jagged  mandibles  
opened  and  closed,


opened  and  closed,  dripping  ribbons  of  foam.  Frozen  in  an  ecstasy  of 
 horror,  tottering  on  the
brink  of  utter  lunacy,  Ben  observed  with  an  eye-of-the-storm calm that 
this foam was alive; it
struck  the  stinking  stone-flagged  floor  and  then  began  to  writhe  away 
 into  the  cracks  like
protozoa.

But  It's  something  else,  there's some final shape, one that I can almost 
see the way you
might see the shape of a man moving behind a movie screen while the show is on, 
some other
shape, but I don't want to see It, please God, don't let me see It . . .

And  it  didn't  matter,  did  it?  They  were  seeing  what  they  were  
seeing,  and  Ben  understood
somehow  that  It  was  imprisoned  in  this  final  shape,  the  shape  of  
the  Spider,  by  their  common
unsought and unfathered vision. It was against this It that they would live or 
die.

The   creature  was  squealing  and  mewling,  and  Ben  became  quite  sure  
he  was  hearing
sounds It made twice   —  in  his  head, and then, a split second later, in his 
ears.  Telepathic, he
thought, I'm reading Its mind.  Its shadow was a squat egg that raced along the 
ancient wall of
this  keep  that  was  Its  lair.  Its  body  was  covered  by  coarse  hair,  
and  Ben  saw  that  It  was
possessed  of  a  stinger  long  enough  to  impale  a  man.  A  clear  fluid  
dripped  from  its  tip,  and
Ben  saw  that  this  was  also  alive;  like  the  saliva,  the  poison  
writhed  away  into  the  cracks  of
the  floor.  Its  stinger,  yes  .  .  .  but  below  that,  Its  belly  bulged 
 grotesquely,  almost  dragging  on
the   floor   as   It   moved,   now   changing   direction   slightly,   
heading   unerringly   toward   their
leader, toward Big Bill.

That's   Its   egg-sac,   Ben   thought,   and   his   mind   seemed   to   
shriek   at   the   implication.
Whatever It is beyond what we see, this representation is at least symbolically 
correct: It's
female, and It's pregnant . . . It was pregnant then and none of us knew except 
Stan, oh Jesus
Christ YES, it was Stan,  Stan,  not Mike,  Stan  who understood,  Stan  who 
told  us . . . That's
why  we  had  to  come  back,  no  matter  what,  because  It  is  female,  
It's  pregnant  with  some
unimaginable spawn . . . and Its time has drawn close.

Incredibly, Bill Denbrough was stepping forward to meet It.

'Bill, no!' Beverly screamed.

'Stuh-Stuh-Stay   b-b-back!'   Bill   shouted   without   looking   around.   
And   then   Richie   was
running  toward  him,  shouting  his  name,  and  Ben  found  his  own  legs  
in  motion.  He  seemed  to
feel  a  phantom  stomach  swaying  in  front  of  him,  and  he  welcomed  the 
 sensation.  Got  to
become a child again, he thought incoherently. That's the only way I can keep 
It from driving
me crazy. Got to become a kid again . . . got to accept it. Somehow.

Running.   Shouting   Bill's   name.   Vaguely   aware   that   Eddie   was   
running   beside   him,   his
broken  arm  flopping,  the  belt  of  the  bath-robe  Bill  had  cinched  
around  it  now  trailing  on  the
floor.  Eddie  had  drawn  his  aspirator.  He  looked  like  a  crazed  
malnourished  gunslinger  with
some weird pistol.

Ben heard Bill bellow: 'You k-k-killed my brother, you fuh-fuh-fucking BITCH!'

Then  It  was  rearing  up  over  Bill,  burying  Bill  in  Its  shadow,  Its  
legs  pawing  the  air.  Ben
heard  Its  eager  mewling,  looked  into  Its  timeless,  evil  red  eyes  .  
.  .  and  for  an  instant  did see
the  shape  behind  the  shape:  saw  lights,  saw  an  endless  crawling  
hairy  thing  which  was  made
of light and nothing else, orange light, dead light that mocked life.

The ritual began for the second time.


C H A P T E R  2 2

The Ritual of Chüd

1

In the Lair of It / 1958

It  was  Bill  who  held  them  together  as  that  great  black  Spider  raced 
 down  Its  web,  creating  a
noxious  breeze  that  tousled  their  hair.  Stan  shrieked  like  a  baby,  
his  brown  eyes  bulging  from
their  sockets,  his  fingers  harrowing  his  cheeks.  Ben  backed  slowly  
away  until  his  ample  ass
struck  the  wall  to  the  left  of  the  door.  He  felt  cold  fire  burn  
through  his  pants  and  stepped
away  again,  but  dreamily.  Surely  none  of  this  could  be  happening;  it 
 was simply the  world's
worst  nightmare.  He  found  he  could  not  lift  his  hands.  They  seemed  
to  have  big  weights  tied
to them.

Richie  found  his  eyes  drawn  to  that  web.  Hanging  here  and  there,  
partially  wrapped  in
silken  strands  that  seemed  to  move  as  if  alive,  were  a  number  of  
rotted  half-eaten bodies. He
thought  he  recognized  Eddie  Corcoran  near  the  ceiling,  although  both  
of  Eddie's  legs  and  one
of his arms were gone.

Beverly  and  Mike  clung  to  each  other  like  Hansel  and  Gretel  in  the  
woods,  watching,
paralyzed,  as  the  Spider  reached  the  floor  and  scrabbled  toward  them, 
 Its  distorted  shadow
racing along beside It on the wall.

Bill  looked  around  at  them,  a  tall,  skinny  boy  in  a  
mud-and-sewage-splattered  tee-shirt that
had  once  been  white,  jeans  with  cuffs, mud-caked Keds. His hair lay 
across his forehead, and
his  eyes  were  blazing.  He  surveyed  them,  seemed  to  dismiss  them,  and 
 turned  back  toward
the  Spider.  And,  incredibly,  he  began  to  cross  the  room  toward  It,  
not  running  but  walking
fast, his elbows cocked, his forearms corded, his hands fisted.

'Yuh-Yuh-You k-k-killed my bruh-hother!'

'No,  Bill!'  Beverly  shrieked,  struggling  free  of  Mike's  embrace  and  
running  toward  Bill,  her
red  hair  flying  out  behind  her.  'Leave  him  alone!'  she  screamed  at  
the  Spider.  'Don't you
touch him!'

Shit!  Beverly!  Ben  thought,  and  then  he  was  running  too,  stomach  
swaying  back  and  forth
in  front  of  him,  legs  pumping.  He  was  vaguely  aware  that  Eddie  
Kaspbrak was running on his
left, holding his aspirator in his good hand like a pistol.

And  then  It  was  rearing  up  over  Bill,  who  was  unarmed;  It  buried  
Bill  in  Its  shadow,  Its
legs  pawing  at  the  air.  Ben  grabbed  for  Beverly's  shoulder.  His  hand 
 slapped  it,  then  slipped
off. She turned toward him, her eyes wild, her lips drawn back from her teeth.

'Help him!' she screamed.

'How?'  Ben  screamed  back.  He  wheeled  toward  the  Spider,  heard  Its  
eager  mewling,
looked  into  Its  timeless,  evil  eyes,  and  saw  something  behind  the  
shape;  something  much
worse  than  a  spider.  Something  that  was  all  insane  light.  His  
courage  faltered  .  .  .  but  it  was
Bev who had asked him. Bev, and he loved her.

'Goddam you, leave Bill alone!' he shrieked.

A  moment  later  a  hand  swatted  his  back  so  hard  he  almost  fell  
over.  It  was  Richie,  and
although  tears  were  running  down  his  cheeks,  Richie  was  grinning  
madly.  The  corners  of  his
mouth  seemed  to  reach  almost  to  the  lobes  of  his  ears.  Spit  leaked  
out  between  his  teeth.
'Let's get her, Haystack!' Richie screamed. 'Chüd! Chüd!'


Her? Ben thought stupidly. Her, did he say?

Aloud: 'Okay, but what is it? What's Chüd?'

'Frocked if I know!' Richie yelled, then ran toward Bill and into the shadow of 
It.

It  had  somehow  squatted  on  Its  rear  legs.  Its  front  legs  pawed  the  
air  just  over  Bill's head.
And  Stan  Uris,  forced  to  approach,  compelled  to  approach  in  spite  of 
 every  instinct  in  his
mind  and  body,  saw  that  Bill  was  staring  up  at  It,  his  blue  eyes  
fixed  on  Its  inhuman  orange
ones,  eyes  from  which  that  awful  corpse-light  spilled.  Stan  stopped,  
understanding  that  the
Ritual of Chüd — whatever that was — had begun.

2

Bill in the Void / Early

— who are you and why do you come to Me?

I'm Bill Denbrough. You know who I am and why I'm here. You killed my brother 
and I'm
here to kill You. You picked the wrong kid, bitch.

— I am eternal. I am the Eater of Worlds.

Yeah? That so? Well, you've had your last meal, sister.

— you have no power; here is the power; feel the power, brat, and then speak 
again of
how  you  come  to  kill  the Eternal. You think you see Me? You see only what 
your mind will
allow. Would you see Me? Come, then! Come, brat! Come!

Thrown —

(he).

No,  not  thrown,  fired,  fired  like  a  living  bullet,  like  the  Human  
Cannonball  at  the  Shrine
Circus  that  came  to  Derry  each  May.  He  was  picked  up  and  heaved  
across the Spider's
chamber.  It's only in my mind!  he  screamed  at  himself.  My body's still 
standing right there,
eye     to eye with It, be brave, it's only a mind-trick, be brave, be true, 
stand, stand —

(thrusts)

Roaring   forward,   slamming   into   a   black   and   dripping   tunnel   
lined   with   decaying,
crumbling  tiles  that  were  fifty  years  old,  a  hundred,  a  thousand,  a  
million-billion,  who  knew,
rushing  in  deadly  silence  past  intersections,  some  lit  by  that  
twisting  green-yellow fire, some
by  glowing  balloons  full  of  a  ghastly  white  skull-light,  others  dead  
black;  he  was  thrown  at  a
speed of a thousand miles an hour past piles of bones, some human, some not, 
speeding like a
rocket-powered  dart  in  a  wind-tunnel,  now  angling  upward,  but  not  
toward  light  but  toward
dark, some titanic dark

(his fists)

and  exploding  outward  into  utter  blackness,  the  blackness  was  
everything,  the  blackness
was  the  cosmos  and  the  universe,  and  the  floor  of  the  blackness  was 
 hard,  hard,  it was like
polished  ebonite  and  he  was  skidding  along  on  his  chest  and  belly  
and  thighs  like  a  weight  on
a shuffleboard. He was on the ballroom floor of eternity, and eternity was 
black.

(against the posts)

— stop that why do you say that? that won't help you, stupid boy and still 
insists he sees
the ghosts!

— stop it.'

he thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he sees the ghosts!

— stop it! stop it! I demand, I command, that you stop it! Don't like that, do 
you?

And thinking:  If  I could  only  say  it  out  loud,  say  it  without  
stuttering,  I  could  break  this
illusion —


— this is no illusion, you foolish little boy  — this is eternity, My eternity, 
and you are lost
in  it,  lost  forever,  never  to  find  your  way  back; you  are  eternal  
now,  and  condemned  to
wander in the black . . . after you meet Me face to face, that is

But  there  was  something  else  here.  Bill  sensed  it,  felt  it,  in  a  
crazy  way  smelled  it:  some
large presence ahead in the dark. A Shape. He felt not  fear but a sense of 
overmastering awe;
here  was  a  power  which  dwarfed  Its  power,  and  Bill  had  only  time  
to  think  incoherently:
Please, please, whatever You are, remember that I am very small —

He  rushed  toward  it  and  saw  it  was  a  great  Turtle,  its  shell plated 
with many blazing colors.
Its  ancient  reptilian  head  slowly  poked  out  of  its  shell,  and  Bill  
thought  he  felt  a  vague
contemptuous  surprise  from  the  thing  that  had  cast  him  out  here.  The 
 eyes  of  the  Turtle  were
kind.      Bill  thought  it  must  be  the  oldest  thing  anyone  could  
imagine,  older  by  far  than  It,
which had claimed to be eternal.

What are you? —

I'm the Turtle, son. I made the universe, but please don't blame me for it; I 
had a bellyache.
Help me! Please help me!

— I take no stand in these matters. My brother —

— has his own place in the macroverse; energy is eternal, as even a child such 
as yourself
must understand

He  was  flying  past  the  Turtle  now,  and  even  at  his  tremendous  
skidding  speed,  the  Turtle's

plated  side  seemed  to  go  on  and  on  to  his  right.  He  thought  dimly  
of  riding  in  a  train  and
passing  one  going  in  the  other  direction,  a  train  that  was  so  long  
it  seemed  eventually  to  stand
still  or  even  move  backward.  He  could  still  hear  It,  yammering  and  
buzzing,  Its  voice  high
and  angry,  not  human,  full  of  mad  hate.  But  when  the  Turtle  spoke,  
Its  voice  was  blanked  out
utterly.  The  Turtle  spoke  in  Bill's  head,  and  Bill  understood  somehow 
 that  there  was  yet
Another,  and  that  Final  Other  dwelt  in  a  void  beyond  this  one.  This 
Final Other was, perhaps,
the  creator  of  the  Turtle,  which  only  watched,  and  It,  which  only  
ate.  This  Other  was  a  force
beyond the universe, a power beyond all other power, the author of all there 
was.

Suddenly  he  thought  he  understood:  It  meant  to  ht rust  him  through  
some  wall  at  the  end  of
the universe and into some other place

(what that old Turtle called the macroverse)

where  It  really  lived;  where  It  existed  as  a  titanic,  glowing  core  
which  might  be  no  more
than  the  smallest  mote  in  that  Other's  mind;  he  would  see  It  naked, 
 a  thing  of  unshaped
destroying  light,  and  there  he  would  either  be  mercifully  annihilated  
or  live  forever,  insane
and     yet conscious inside Its homicidal endless formless hungry being.

Please help me! For the others —

— you must help yourself, son

But how? Please tell me! How? How? HOW?

He  had  reached  the  Turtle's  heavily  scaled  back  legs  now;  there  was  
time  enough  to
observe  its  titanic  yet  ancient  flesh,  time  to  be  struck  with  the  
wonder  of  its  heavy  toenails —
they were an odd bluish-yellow color, and he could see galaxies swimming in 
each one.

Please, you are good, I sense and believe that you are good, and I am begging 
you . . .
won't you please help me?

— you already know, there is only Chüd. and your friends.
Please oh please —

son, you've got to thrust your fists against the posts and still insist you see 
the ghosts . . .
that's all I can tell you. once you get into cosmological shit like this, you 
got to throw away
the instruction manual

He  realized  the  voice  of  the  Turtle  was  fading.  He  was  beyond  it  
now,  bulleting  into  a
darkness  that  was  deeper  than  deep.  The  Turtle's  voice  was  being  
overcome,  overmastered,


by  the  gleeful,  gibbering  voice  of  the  Thing  that  had  thrust  him  
out  and  into  this  black  void

— the voice of the Spider, of It.

— how do you like it out here, Little Friend? do you like it? do you love it? 
do you give it
ninety-eight points because it has a good beat and you can dance to it? can you 
catch it on
your tonsils and heave it left and right? did you enjoy meeting my friend the 
Turtle? I thought
that stupid old fuck died years ago, and for all the good he could do you, he 
might as well
have, did you think he could help you?

no no no no he thrusts no he thuh-thuh-huh-huh-rusts no

— stop babbling! the time is short; let us talk while we still can. tell me 
about yourself,
Little Friend . . . tell me, do you love all the cold dark out here? are you 
enjoying your grand
tour  of  the  nothingness  that  lies  Outside? wait until you break through, 
Little Friend! wait
until you break through to where  I am! wait for that! wait for the deadlights! 
you'll look and
you'll go mad . . . but you'll live . . . and live . . . and live . . . inside 
them . . . inside Me . . .

It  screamed  noxious  laughter,  and  Bill  became  aware  that  Its  voice  
was  beginning  both  to
fade  and  to  swell,  as  if  he  was  simultaneously  drawing  out  of  Its  
range  .  .  .  and  hurtling  into
it.  And  wasn't  that  just  what  was  happening?  Yes.  He  thought  it  
was.  Because  while  the
voices  were  in  perfect  sync,  the  one  he  was  now  rushing  toward  was  
totally  alien,  speaking
syllables  no  human  tongue  or  throat  could  reproduce.  That's  the  voice 
 of  the  deadlights,  he
thought.

— the time is short; let us talk while we still can

Its  human  voice  fading  the  way  the  Bangor  radio  stations  faded  when  
you  were  in  the  car
and   travelling   south.   Bright,   flaring   terror   filled   him.   He   
would   shortly   be   beyond   sane
communication  with  It  .  .  .  and  some  part  of  him  understood  that, 
for all Its laughter, for all
Its alien glee, that was what It wanted. Not just to send him out to whatever 
It really was, but
to  break  their  mental  communication.  If  that  ceased,  he  would  be  
utterly  destroyed.  To  pass
beyond  communication  was  to  pass  beyond  salvation;  he  understood  that  
much  from  the  way
his  parents  had  behaved  toward  him  after  George  had  died.  It  was  
the  only  lesson  their
refrigerator coldness had had to teach him.

Leaving  It  .  .  .  and  approaching  It.  But  the  leaving  was  somehow  
more  important.  If  It
wanted to eat little kids out here, or suck them in, or whatever It did, why 
hadn't It sent them
all out here? Why just him?

Because  It  had  to  rid  Its  Spider-self  of  him,  that  was  why.  Somehow 
 the  Spider-It and the
It  which  It  called  the  deadlights  were  linked.  Whatever  lived  out  
here  in  the  black  might  be
invulnerable  when  It  was  here  and  nowhere  else  .  .  .  but  It  was  
also  on  earth,  under  Derry,  in
a  form  that  was  physical.  However  repulsive  It  might  be,  in  Derry  
it  was  physical . .   .  and
what was physical could be killed.

Bill skidded through the dark, his speed still increasing.  Why  do  I  sense  
so  much  of  Its  talk
is nothing but a bluff, a big shuck-and jive? Why should that be? How can that 
be?

He understood how, maybe . . . just maybe.

There  is  only  Chüd,  the Turtle had said. And suppose this was it? Suppose 
they had bitten
deep  into  each  other's  tongues,  not  physically  but  mentally,  
spiritually?  And  suppose  that  if  It
could  throw  Bill  far  enough  into  the  void,  far  enough  toward  Its  
eternal  discorporate  self,  the
ritual  would  be  over?  It  would  have  ripped  him  free,  killed  him,  
and  won  everything  all  at  the
same

— you're doing good, son, but very shortly it's going to be too late It's 
scared! Scared of
me! Scared of all of us!

—  skidding,  he  was  skidding,  and  there  was  a  wall  up  ahead,  he  
sensed  it,  sensed  it  in  the
dark, the wall at the edge of the continuum, and beyond it the other shape, the 
deadlights —

— don't talk to me, son, and don't talk to yourself  — it's tearing you loose, 
bite in if you

care, if you dare, if you can be brave, if you can stand . . . bite in, son!


Bill bit in — not with his teeth, but with teeth in his mind.

Dropping  his  voice  a  full  register,  making  it  not  his  own  (making  
it,  in  fact,  his  father's
voice,  although  Bill  would  go  to  his  grave  not  knowing  this;  some  
secrets  are  never,  known,
and  it's  probably  better  so),  drawing  in  a  great  breath,  he  cried:  
'HE  THRUSTS  HIS  FISTS
AGAINST THE POSTS AND STILL INSISTS HE SEES THE GHOSTS NOW LET ME GO!'

He  felt  It  scream  in  his  mind,  a  scream  of  frustrated  petulant  rage 
 .  .  .  but  it  was  also  a
scream  of  fear  and  pain.  It  was  not  used  to  not  having  Its  own  
way;  such  a  thing  had  never
happened  to  It,  and  until  the  most  recent  moments  of Its existence It 
had not suspected such a
thing could.

Bill felt It writhing at him, not pulling but pushing — trying to get him away.
'THRUSTS HIS FISTS AGAINST THE POSTS, I SAID!

'STOP IT!

'BRING ME BACK! YOU MUST! I COMMAND IT! I DEMAN D IT!'

It  screamed  again,  Its  pain  more  intense  now  —  perhaps  partly  
because,  while  It  had  spent
Its  long,  long  existence  inflicting  pain,  feeding  on  it,  It  had  
never  experienced  it  as  a  part  of
Itself.

Still  It  tried  to  push  him,  to  get  rid  of  him,  blindly  and  
stubbornly  insisting  on  winning,  as
It  had  always  won  before.  It  pushed  .  .  .  but  Bill  sensed  that  
his  outward  speed  had  slowed,
and   a   grotesque   image   came   into   his   mind:   Its   tongue,   
covered   with   that   living   spittle,
extended  like  a  thick  rubber  band,  cracking,  bleeding.  He  saw  himself 
 clinging  to  the  tip  of
that  tongue  by  his  teeth,  ripping  through  it  a  little  at  a  time,  
his  face  bathed  in  the  convulsive
ichor   that   was   Its   blood,   drowning   in   Its   dead   stench,   yet  
 still   holding   on,   holding   on
somehow,  while  It  struggled  in  Its  blind  pain  and  towering  rage  not  
to  let  Its  tongue  snap
back     —

(Chüd, this Chüd, stand, be brave, be true, stand for your brother, your 
friends; believe,
believe in all the things you have believed in, believe that if you tell the 
policeman you're lost
he'll see that you get home safely, that there is a Tooth Fairy who lives in a 
huge enamel
castle, and Santa Claus below the North Pole, making toys with his trove of 
elves, and that
Captain  Midnight  could  be  real,  yes,  he  could  be in spite of Calvin and 
Cissy Clark's big
brother Carlton saying that was all a lot of baby stuff, believe that your 
mother and father
will love you again, that courage ts possible and words will come smoothly 
every time; no
more  Losers,  no  more cowering in a hole in the ground and calling it a 
clubhouse, no more
crying in Georgie's room because you couldn't save him and didn't know, believe 
in yourself
believe in the heat of that desire)

He   suddenly   began   to   laugh   in   the   darkness,   not   in   hysteria 
  but   in   utter   delighted
amazement.

'OH SHIT, I BELIEVE IN  ALL OF THOSE THINGS!'  he shouted, and it was true: 
even at
eleven  he  had  observed  that  things  turned  out  right  a  ridiculous  
amount  of  the  tune.  Light
flared  around  him.  He  raised  his  arms  out  and  above  his  head.  He  
turned  his  face  up,  and
suddenly he felt power rush through him.

He heard It scream again . . . and suddenly he was being drawn back the way he 
had come,
still  holding  that  image  of  his  teeth  planted  deep  in  the  strange  
meat  of  Its  tongue,  his  teeth
locked  together  like  grim  old  death.  He  flew  through  the  dark,  legs  
trailing  behind  him,  the
tips   of   his   mud-crusted  sneaker  laces  flying  like  pennants,  the  
wind  of  this  empty  place
blowing in his ears.

He  was  pulled  past  the  Turtle  and  saw  that  its  head  had  withdrawn  
into  its  shell;  its  voice
emerged hollow and distorted, as if even the shell it lived in were a well 
eternities deep:

— not bad, son, but I'd finish it now; don't let It get away, energy has a way 
of dissipating,
you know; what can be done when you're eleven can often never be done again


The  voice  of  the  Turtle  faded,  faded,  faded.  There  was  only  the  
rushing  dark  .  .  .  and  then
the mouth of a cyclopean tunnel . . . smells of age and decay . . . cobwebs 
brushing at his face
like  rotted  skeins  of  silk  in  a  haunted  house  .  .  .  moldering  
tiles  blurring  by  .  .  .  intersections,
all dark now, the moon-balloons all gone, and It was screaming, screaming:

—  let  me  go  let  me  go  I'll  leave  never  come  back  let  me  GO  IT 
HURTS IT HURTS IT
HURRRRRRRRRR

'Thrusts  his  fists!'  Bill  screamed,  nearly  delirious  now.  He  could  
see  light  ahead  but  it  was
fading, guttering like great candles which had at last burned low . . . and for 
a moment he saw
himself  and  the  others  holding  hands  in  a  line,  Eddie  on  one  side  
of  him  and  Richie  on  the
other.  He  saw  his  own  body,  sagging,  his  head  rolled  back  on  his  
neck,  staring  up  at  the
Spider,  which  twisted  and  whirled  like  a  dervish,  Its  coarse,  spiny  
legs  beating  at  the  floor,
poison dripping from Its stinger.

It was screaming in Its death-agony.
So Bill honestly believed.

Then  he  was  slamming  back  into  his  body  with  all  the  impact  of  a  
line  drive  slamming  into
a  baseball  glove,  the  force  of  it  tearing  his  hands  loose  from  
Richie's  and  Eddie's,  driving  him
to his knees and skidding him across the floor to the edge of the web. He 
reached out for one
of  the  strands  without  thinking,  and  his  hand  immediately  went  numb,  
as  if  it  had  been
injected  with  a  hypo  full  of  novocaine.  The  strand  itself  was  as  
thick  as  a  telephone-pole guy-
wire.

'Don't  touch  that,  Bill!'  Ben  yelled,  and  Bill  yanked  his  hand  away  
in  one  quick  jerk,
leaving  a  raw  place  across  his  palm  just  below  the  fingers.  It  
filled  with  blood  and  he
staggered to his feet, eyes on the Spider.

It  was  scrabbling  away  from  them,  making  Its  way  into  the  growing  
dimness  at  the  back  of
the  chamber  as  the  light  failed.  It  left  puddles  and  pools  of  black 
 blood  behind  as  It  went;
somehow their confrontation had ruptured Its insides in a dozen, maybe a 
hundred places.

'Bill, the web!' Mike screamed. 'Look out!'

He  stepped  backward,  craning  his  neck  up,  as  strands  of  Its  web  
came  floating  down,
striking  the  stone-flagged  floor  on  either  side  of  him  like  the  
bodies  of  meaty  white  snakes.
They  immediately  began  to  lose  shape,  to  flow  into  the  cracks  
between  the  stones.  The  web
was  falling  apart,  coming  loose  from  its  many  moorings.  One  of  the  
bodies,  wrapped  up  like
a fly, came plunging down to strike the floor with a sickening rotted-gourd 
sound.

'The Spider!' Bill yelled. 'Where is It?'

He  could  still  hear  It  in  his  head,  mewling  and  crying  out  in  Its  
pain,  and  understood  dimly
that It had gone into the same tunnel It had thrown Bill into . . . but had It 
gone in there to flee
back to the place where It had meant to send Bill . . . or to hide until they 
were gone? To die?
Or escape?

'Christ,  the  lights!'  Richie  shouted.  'The  lights're  going  out!  What  
happened,  Bill?  Where
did you go? We thought you were dead!'

In  some  confused  part  of  his  mind  Bill  knew  that  wasn't  true:  if  
they  had  really  thought  him
dead,  they  would  have  run,  scattered,  and  It  would  have  picked  them  
off  easily,  one  by  one.
Or perhaps it would be truer to say that they had thought him dead, but 
believed him alive.

We have to make sure! If It's dying or gone back to where It came from, where 
the rest of It
is, that's fine. But what if Ifs just hurt? What if It can get better? What —

Stan's  shriek  cut  across  his  thoughts  like  broken  glass.  In  the  
fading  light  Bill  saw  that  one
of  the  strands  of  webbing  had  come  down  on  Stan's  shoulder.  Before  
Bill  could  reach  him,
Alike  had  thrown  himself  at  the  smaller  boy  in  a  flying  tackle.  He  
drove  Stan  away  and  the
piece of webbing snapped back, taking a piece of Stan's polo shirt with it.

'Get  back!'  Ben  yelled  at  them.  'Get  away  from  it,  it's  all  coming  
down!'  He  seized

Beverly's  hand  and  pulled  her  back  toward  the  child-sized  door  while  
Stan  struggled  to  his


feet,  looked  dazedly  around,  and  the n  grabbed  Eddie.  The  two  of  
them  started  toward  Ben
and Beverly, helping each other, looking like phantoms in the fading light.

Overhead,  the  spiderweb  was  drooping,  collapsing  on  itself,  losing  its 
 fearful  symmetry.
Bodies  twirled  lazily  in  the  air  like  nightmarish  plumb-bobs.  
Cross-strands  fell  in  like  the
rotted  rungs  of  some  strange  complex  of  ladders.  Severed  strands  hit  
the  stone  flagging,
hissed like cats, lost their shape, began to run.

Mike  Hanlon  wove  his  way  through  them  as  he  would  later  weave  his  
way  through  the
opposing   lines   of   nearly   a   dozen   high-school   football   teams,   
head   down,   ducking   and
dodging.  Richie  joined  him.  Incredibly,  Richie  was  laughing,  although  
his  hair  was  standing
straight   up   on   his   head   like   the   quills   of   a   porcupine.   
The   light   grew   dimmer,   the
phosphorescence that had coiled on the walls now dying away.

'Bill!' Mike shouted. 'Come on! Get the frock out of there!'

'What if It's not dead?'  Bill screamed back.  'We got to go after It, Mike! We 
got to make
sure!'

A  snarl  of  webbing  sagged  outward  like  a  parachute  and  then  fell  
with  a  nasty  ripping
sound   that   was   like   skin   being   pulled   apart.   Mike   grabbed   
Bill's   arm   and   pulled   him,
stumbling, out of the way.

'It's  dead!'  Eddie  cried,  joining  them.  His  eyes  were  febrile  lamps,  
his  breathing  a  chilly
winter-whistle  in  his  throat.  Fallen  strands  of  webbing  had  sizzled  
complex  scars  into  the
plaster of Paris of his cast. 'I heard It, It was dying, you don't sound like 
that if you're on your
way to a sock hop, It was dying, I'm sure of it!'

Richie's   hands   groped   out   of   the   darkness,   seized   Bill,   and   
pulled   him   into   a   rough

embrace.  He  began  to  pound  Bill's  back  ecstatically.  'I  heard  It,  
too  — It was dying, Big Bill!
It was dying . . . and you're not stuttering! Not at all!  Howdja do it? How in 
the hell — ?'

Bill's  brain  was  whirling.  Exhaustion  tugged  at  him  with  thick  and  
clumsy  hands.  He  could
not  remember  ever  feeling  this  tired  .  .  .  but  in  his  mind  he  
heard  the  drawling,  almost  weary
voice of the Turtle: I'd finish it now; don't let It get away . . . what can be 
done when you're
eleven can often never be done again.

'But we have to be sure — '

The  shadows  were  joining  hands  and  now  the  darkness  was  almost  
complete.  But  before
the light failed  utterly,  he  thought  he  saw  the  same  hellish  doubt  on 
 Beverly's  face  .  .  .  and  in
Stan's  eyes.  And  still,  as  the  last  of  the  light  gave  way,  they  
could  hear  the  tenebrous  whisper-
shudder-thump of Its unspeakable web falling to pieces.

3

Bill in the Void / Late

— well here you are again, Little Buddy! but what's happened to your hair? 
you're just as
bald as a cueball! sad! what sad, short lives humans live! each life a short 
pamphlet written
by an idiot! tut-tut, and all that

I'm still Bill Denbrough. You killed my brother and you killed Stan the Man you 
tried to kill
Mike. And I'm going to tell you something: this time I'm not going to stop 
until the job's done

— the Turtle was stupid, too stupid to lie. he told you the truth, Little Buddy 
. . . the time
only comes around once, you hurt me . . . you surprised me. never again. I am 
the one who
called you back. I.

You called, all right, but You weren't the only one

—  your friend the Turtle . . . he died a few years ago. the old idiot puked 
inside his shell
and choked to death on a galaxy or two. very sad, don't you think? but also 
quite bizarre,


deserves a place in  Ripley's Believe It or Not, that's what I think, happened 
right around the
same time you had that writer's block, you must have felt him go, Little Buddy

I don't believe that, either

— oh you'll believe . . . you'll see. this time, Little Buddy, I intend you to 
see everything,
including the deadlights

He  sensed  Its  voice  rising,  buzzing  and  racketing —  at  last  he  
sensed the full extent of Its

fury,   and   he   was   terrified.   He   reached   for   the   tongue   of   
Its   mind,   concentrating,   trying
desperately  to  recapture  the  full  extent  of  that  childish  belief,  
understanding  at  the  same  time
that  there  was  a  deadly  truth  in  what  It  had said: last time It had 
been unprepared. This time .

. . well, even if It had not been the only one to call them, It sure had been 
waiting.

But still —

He  felt  his  own  fury,  clean  and  singing,  as  his  eyes  fixed  on  Its  
eyes.  He  sensed  Its  old
scars, sensed that It had truly been hurt, and that It was still hurt.

And  as  It  threw  him,  as  he  felt  his  mind  swatted  out  of  his  body, 
 he  concentrated  all  of  his

being on seizing Its tongue . . . and missed his grip.

4

Richie

The  other  four  watched,  paralyzed. It was an exact replay of what had 
happened before  — at
first.  The  Spider,  which  seemed  about  to  seize  Bill  and  gobble  him  
up,  grew  suddenly  still.
Bill's  eyes  locked  with  Its  ruby  ones.  There  was  a  sense  of  contact 
 .  .  .  a  contact  just  beyond
their ability to divine. But they felt the struggle, the clash of wills.

Then Richie glanced up into the new web, and saw the first difference.

There  were  bodies  there,  some  half-eaten  and  half-rotted,  and  that  
was  the  same  .  .  .  but
high  up,  in  one  corner,  was  another  body,  and  Richie  was  sure  this  
one  was  still  fresh,
possibly  even  still  alive.  Beverly  had  not  looked  up  —  her  eyes  
were  fixed  on  Bill  and  the
Spider  —  but  even  in  his  terror,  Richie  saw  the  resemblance  between  
Beverly  and  the  woman
in the  web.  Her  hair  was  long  and  red.  Her  eyes  were  open  but  
glassy  and  unmoving.  A  line
of  spittle  had  run  from  the  left  corner  of  her  mouth  down  to  her  
chin.  She  had  been  attached
to  one  of  the  web's  main  cables  by  a  gossamer  harness  that  went  
around  her  waist and under
both  arms  so  that  she  lolled  forward  in  a  half-bow,  arms  and  legs  
dangling  limply.  Her  feet
were bare.

Richie saw another body crumpled at the foot of her web, a man he had never 
seen before .

.  .  and  yet  his  mind  registered  an  almost  subconscious  resemblance  
to  the  late  unlamented
Henry Bowers. Blood had run from both  of the stranger's eyes and caked in a 
foam around his
mouth and on his chin He —

Then Beverly was screaming.  'Something's wrong! Something's gone wrong, do 
something,
for Christ's sake won't somebody DO something —

Richie's  gaze  snapped  back  to  Bill  and  the  Spider  .  .  .  and  he  
sensed  /  heard  monstrous
laughter.  Bill's  face  was  stretching  in  some  subtle  way.  His  skin  
had  gone  parchment-sallow,
as shiny as the skin of a very old person. His eyes were rolled up to the 
whites.

Oh Bill, where are you?

As  Richie  watched,  blood  suddenly  burst  from  Bill's  nose  in  a  foam.  
His  mouth  was
writhing,  trying  to  scream  .  .  .  and  now  the  Spider  was  advancing  
on  him  again.  It was
turning, presenting Its stinger.

It  means  to  kill  him  .  .  .  kill  his  body,  anyway  .  .  .  while  
his  mind  is  somewhere  else.  It
means to shut him out forever. It's winning . . . Bill, where are you? For 
Christ's sake, where
are you?


And  somewhere,  faintly,  from  some  unimaginable  distance,  he  heard  Bill 
 scream  .  .  .  and
the words, although meaningless, were crystal-clear and full of sickening

(the Turtle is dead oh God the Turtle really is dead)

despair.

Bev  shrieked  again  and  put  her  hands  to  her  ears  as  if  to  shut  
out  that  fading  voice.  The
Spider's stinger rose and Richie bolted at It, a grin spreading up toward his 
ears, and he called
out in his best Irish Cop's Voice:

'Here,  here,  me  foine  girl!  Just  what  in  the  hell  do  ye  think  
ye're doin? Belay that guff
before I snatch yer pettiskirts and snap yer smithyriddles!'

The  Spider  stopped  laughing,  and  Richie  felt  a  rising  howl  of  anger  
and  pain  inside  Its
head. Hurt It!  he thought triumphantly. Hurt It, how about that, hurt It,  and 
guess what? I'VE
GOT   ITS   TONGUE!   I   THINK   BILL   MISSED   IT   SOMEHOW   BUT   WHILE   
IT   WAS
DISTRACTED I GOT —

Then,  screaming  at  him,  Its  cries  a  hive  of  furious  bees  in  his  
head,  Richie  was  whacked
out  of  himself  and  into  darkness,  dimly  aware  that  It  was  trying  to 
 shake  him  loose.  It  was
doing a pretty good job, too. Terror washed through him, and then was replaced 
by a sense of
cosmic   absurdity.   He   remembered   Beverly   with   his   Duncan   yo-yo,  
showing  him  how  to
make  it  sleep,  walk  the  dog,  go  around  the  world.  And  now  here  he  
was,  Richie  the  Human
Yo-Yo, and Its tongue was the string. Here he was, and this wasn't called 
walking the dog but
maybe walking the Spider, and if that wasn't funny, what was?

Richie  laughed.  It  wasn't  polite  to  laugh  with  your  mouth  full,  of  
course,  but  he  doubted  if
anybody out here read Miss Manners.

That got him laughing again, and he bit in harder.

The  Spider  screamed  and  shook  him  furiously,  howling  Its  anger  at  
being  surprised  again

—  It  had  believed  only  the  writer  would  challenge  It,  and  now  this  
man  who  was  laughing
like a crazy boy had seized It when It was least prepared.

Richie felt himself slipping.

— hold eet a secon, senhorrita, we ees gain out here together or I ain gonna 
sell you no
tickets in la lotería after all, and every one is a big winner, I swear on my 
mamma's name

He  felt  his  teeth  catch  again,  more  firmly  this  time.  And  there  was 
 a  fainting sort of pain as
It  drove  Its  fangs  into  his  own  tongue.  Boy,  it  was  still  pretty  
funny,  though.  Even in the dark,
being  hurled  after  Bill  with  only  the  tongue  of  this  unspeakable  
monster  left  to  connect  him  to
his  own  world,  even  with  the  pain  of  Its  poisonous  fangs  suffusing  
his  mind  like  a  red  fog,  it
was pretty goddamned funny. Check it out, folks. You'll believe a disc jockey 
can fly.

He was flying, all right.

Richie  was  in  greater  darkness  than  he  had  ever  known,  than  he  had  
ever  suspected  might
exist,  travelling  at  what  felt  like  the  speed  of  light,  and  being  
shaken  as  a  terrier  shakes  a  rat.
He  sensed  that  there  was  something  up  ahead,  some  titanic  corpse.  
The  Turtle  he  had  heard
Bill  lamenting  in  his  fading  voice?  Must  be.  It  was  only  a  shell,  
a  dead  husk.  Then  he  was
past, rushing on into the darkness.

Really steaming now, he thought, and felt that wild urge to cackle again.

bill! bill, can you hear me?

— he's gone, he's in the deadlights, let me go! LET ME GO!
(richie?)

Incredibly distant; incredibly far out in the black.

bill! bill! here I am! catch hold! for God's sake catch hold

—   he's  dead,  you're  all  dead,  you're  too  old,  don't  you  understand  
that?  now  let
me GO!

hey bitch, you're never too old to rock and roll

— LET ME GO!


take me to him and maybe I will
Richie

— closer, he was closer now, thank God —

here I come, Big Bill! Richie to the rescue! Gonna save your old cracked ass! 
Owe you one
from that day on Neibolt Street, remember?

— let me GOOOO!

It  was  hurting  badly  now,  and  Richie  understood  how  completely  he  
had  caught  It  by
surprise  —  It  had  believed  It  had  only  Bill  to  deal  with.  Well,  
good.  Good  'miff.  Richie  didn't
care  about  killing  It  right  now;  he  was  no  longer  sure  It   could  
be  killed.  But  Bill  could be
killed,  and  Richie  sensed  that  Bill's  time  was  now  very,  very  short. 
 Bill  was  closing  in  on
some large nasty surprise out here, something best not thought about.

Richie, no! Go back! It's the edge of everything up here! The deadlights!

souns like what you turn on when you drivinn you hearse at midnie, senhorr . . 
. and where
is you, honey chile? smile, so I can see where you is!

And suddenly Bill was there, skidding along on

(the left? right? there was no direction here)

one  side  or  the  other.  And  beyond  him,  coming  up  fast,  Richie  could 
 see/sense  something
that  finally  dried  up  his  laughter.  It  was  a  barrier,  something  of  
a  strange,  non-geometrical
shape  that  his  mind  could  not  grasp.  Instead  his  mind  translated  it  
as  best  it  could,  as  it  had
translated  the  shape  of  It  into  a  Spider,  allowing  Richie  to  think  
of  it  as  a  colossal  gray  wall
made  of  fossilized  wooden  stakes.  These  stakes  went  forever  up  and  
forever  down,  like  the
bars of a cage. And from between them shone a great blind light. It glared and 
moved, smiled
and snarled. The light was alive.

(deadlights)

More  than  alive:  it  was  full  of  a  force  —  magnetism,  gravity,  
perhaps  something  else.
Richie  felt  himself  lifted  and  dropped,  swirled  and  pulled,  as  if  he 
 were  shooting  a  fast  throat
of  rapids  in  an  innertube.  He  could  feel  the  light  moving  eagerly  
over  his  face  .  .  .  and  the
light was thinking.

This is It, this is It, the rest of It.

— let me go, you promised to let me GO

I know but sometimes, honeychile, I lie — my mamma she beat me fo it but my 
daddy, he
done just about give up

He  sensed  Bill  tumbling  and  flailing  toward  one  of  the  gaps  in  the  
wall,  sensed  evil  fingers
of light reaching for him, and with a final despairing effort, he reached for 
his friend.

Bill! Your hand! Give me your hand! YOUR HAND, GODDAMMIT' YOUR HAND!

Bill's  hand  shot  out,  the  fingers  opening  and  closing,  that  living  
fire  crawling  and  twisting
over  Audra's  wedding  ring  in  runic,  Moorish  patterns  —  wheels,  
crescents,  stars,  swastikas,
linked   circles   that   grew   into   rolling   chains.   Bill's  face  was  
overlaid  with  the  same  light,
making  him  look  tattooed.  Richie  stretched  out  as  far  as  he  could,  
hearing  It  scream  and
yammer.

(I missed him, oh dear God I missed he's going to shoot through)

Then  Bill's  fingers  closed  over  Richie's,  and  Richie  clenched  his  
hand  into  a  fist.  Bill's  legs
flew  through  one  of  the  gaps  in  the  frozen  wood,  and  for  one  mad  
moment  Richie  realized  he
could  see  all  the  bones  and  veins  and  capillaries  inside  them,  as  
if  Bill  had  shot  halfway  into
the  maw  of  the  world's  strongest  X-ray  machine.  Richie  felt  the  
muscles  in  his  arm  stretch
like  taffy,  felt  the  ball-and-socket  joint  in  his  shoulder  creak  and  
groan  in  protest  as  the  foot-
pounds of pressure built up.

He summoned all of his force and shouted:  'Pull  us  back! Pull us back or 
I'll kill you! I . . .

I'll Voice you to death!'


The   Spider   screeched   again,   and   Richie   suddenly   felt   a   great, 
  snapping   whiplash   curl
through his body. His arm was a white-hot bar of agony. His grip on Bill's hand 
began to slip.

'Hold on, Big Bill!'

'I got you! Richie, I got you!'

You better,  Richie thought grimly, because I think you could walk ten billion 
miles out here
and never find a fucking pay toilet.

They  whistled  back,  that  crazy  light  fading,  becoming  a  series  of  
brilliant  pinpoints  that
finally   winked   out.   They   drove   through   the   darkness   like  
torpedoes,   Richie   gripping   Its
tongue  with  his  teeth  and  Bill's  wrist  with  one  aching  hand.  There  
was  the  Turtle;  there  and
gone in a single eyeblink.

Richie  sensed  them  drawing  closer  to  whatever  passed  for  the  real  
world  (although  he
believed  he  would  never  think  of  it  as  exactly  'real'  again;  he  
would  see  it  as  a  clever  canvas
scene  underlaid  with  a  crisscrossing  of  support-cables  .  .  .  cables  
like  the  strands  of  a
spiderweb). But we're going to be all right, he thought. We're going to get 
back. We —

The  buffeting  began  then  —  the  whipping,  slamming,  side-to-side  
flailing  as  It  tried  one
final  time  to  shake  them  off  and  leave  them  Outside.  And  Richie  
felt  his  grip  slipping.  He
heard  Its  guttural  roar  of  triumph  and  concentrated  his  being  on  
holding  .  .  .  but  he  continued
to  slip.  He  bit  down  frantically,  but  Its  tongue  seemed  to  be  
losing  substance  and  reality;  it
seemed to be becoming gossamer.

'Help!' Richie screamed. 'I'm losing it! Help! Somebody help us!'

5

Eddie

Eddie  was  half-aware  of  what  was  happening;  he  felt  it  somehow,  saw  
it  somehow,  but  as  if
through  a  gauzy  curtain.  Somewhere,  Bill  and  Richie  were  struggling  
to  come  back.  Their
bodies were here, but the rest of them — the real of them — was far away.

He  had  seen  the  Spider  turn  to  impale  Bill  with  Its  stinger,  and  
then  Richie  had  run
forward,  yelling  at  It  in  that  ridiculous  Irish  Cop's  Voice  he  used  
to  use  .  .  .  only  Richie  must
have  improved his act a hell of a lot over the years, because this Voice 
sounded eerily like Mr
Nell from the old days.

The Spider had turned toward Richie, and Eddie had seen Its unspeakable red 
eyes bulge in
their  sockets.  Richie  yelled  again,  this  time  in  his  Pancho  Vanilla  
Voice,  and  Eddie  had  felt
the  Spider  scream  in  pain.  Ben  yelled  hoarsely  as  a  split  appeared  
in  Its  hide  along  the  line  of
one  of  Its  scars  from  the  last  time.  A  stream  of  ichor,  black  as  
crude  oil,  sprayed  out.  Richie
had started to say something else . . . and his voice had begun to  diminish,  
like the fade at the
end  of  a  pop  song.  His  head  had  rolled  back  on  his  neck,  his  eyes 
 fixed  on  Its  eyes.  The
Spider grew quiet again.

Time  passed  —  Eddie  had  no  idea  just  how  much.  Richie  and   the  
Spider  stared  at  each

other;  Eddie  sensed  the  connection  between  them,  felt  a  swirl  of  
talk  and  emotion  somewhere
far  away.  He  could  make  out  nothing  exactly,  but  sensed  the  tones  
of  things  in  colors  and
hues.

Bill  lay  slumped  on  the  floor,  nose  and  ears  bleeding,  fingers  
twitching  slightly,  his  long
face pale, his eyes closed.

The  Spider  was  now  bleeding  in  four  or  five  places,  badly  hurt  
again,  badly  hurt  but  still
dangerously vital, and Eddie thought:  Why  are  we  just  standing around 
here? We  could hurt
It while It's occupied with Richie! Why doesn't somebody move, for Christ's 
sake?


He sensed a wild triumph  —  and  that  feeling  was  dearer,  sharper.  
Closer.  They're coming
back!  he  wanted  to  shout,  but  his  mouth  was  too  dry,  his  throat  
too  tight.  They're coming
back!

Then  Richie's  head  began  to  turn  slowly  from  side  to  side.  His  body 
 seemed  to  ripple
inside  his  clothes.  His  glasses  hung  on  the  end  of  his  nose  for  a  
moment  .  .  .  then  fell  off  and
shattered on the stone floor.

The Spider  stirred, its spiny legs making a dry clittering on the floor. Eddie 
heard It cry out
in terrible triumph, and a moment later, Richie's voice burst clearly into his 
head:

(help! I'm losing it! somebody help me!}

Eddie  ran  forward  then,  yanking  his  aspirator  from  his  pocket  with  
his  good  hand,  his  lips
drawn  back  in  a  grimace,  his  breath  whistling  painfully  in  and  out  
of  a  throat  that  now  felt  the
size  of  a  pinhole.  Crazily,  his  mother's  face  danced  before  him  and  
she  was  crying:  Don't go
near that Thing, Eddie! Don't go near It! Things like that give you cancer!

'Shut  up,  Ma!'   Eddie  screamed  in  a  high,  shrieky  voice   —  all  the  
voice  he  had  left.  The
Spider's head turned toward the sound, Its eyes momentarily leaving Richie's.

'Here!' Eddie howled in his fading voice. 'Here, have some of this!'

He   leaped   at   It,   triggering   the   aspirator   at   the   same   time, 
  and   for   an   instant   all   his
childhood  belief  in  the  medicine  came  back  to  him,  the  childhood  
medicine  that  could  solve
everything, that could  make  him  feel  better  when  the  bigger  boys  
roughed  him  up  or  when  he
was knocked over in the rush to get through the doors when school let out or 
when he had to
sit  on  the  edge  of  the  Tracker  Brothers'  vacant  lot,  out  of  the  
game  because  his  mother
wouldn't allow  him  to  play  baseball.  It  was  good  medicine,  strong  
medicine, and as he leaped
into  the  Spider's  face,  smelling  Its  foul  yellow  stench,  feeling  
himself  overwhelmed  by  Its
single-minded  fury  and  determination  to  wipe  them  all  out,  he  
triggered  the  aspirator into one
of Its ruby eyes.

He felt-heard Its scream   —  no rage this time, only pain, a horrid screaming 
agony. He saw
the  mist  of  droplets  settle  on  that  blood-red  bulge,  saw  the  
droplets  turn  white  where  they
landed,  saw  them  sink  in  as  a  splash of carbolic acid would sink in; he 
saw Its huge eye begin
to  flatten  out  like  a  bloody  egg-yolk and run in a ghastly stream of 
living blood and ichor and
maggoty pus.

'Come home now, Bill!'  he screamed with the last of his voice, and then he 
struck It, he felt
Its  noisome  heat  baking  into  him;  he  felt  a  terrible  wet  warmth  and 
 realized  that  his  good  arm
had slipped into the Spider's mouth.

He  triggered  the  aspirator  again,  shooting  the  stuff  right  down  Its  
throat  this  tune,  right
down  Its  rotten  evil  stinking  gullet,  and  there  was  sudden,  flashing  
pain,  as  clean  as  the  drop
of a heavy knife, as Its jaws closed and ripped his arm off at the shoulder.

Eddie  fell  to  the  floor,  the  ragged  stump  of  his  arm  spraying  
blood,  faintly  aware  that  Bill
was  getting  shakily  to  his  feet,  that  Richie  was  weaving  and  
stumbling  toward  him  like  a
drunk at the end of a long hard night.

' — eds — '

Far  away.  Unimportant.  He  could  feel  everything  running  out  of  him  
along  with  his  life's
blood . . . all the rage, all the pain, all the fear, all the confusion and 
hurt. He supposed he was
dying  but  he  felt  .  .  .  ah,  God,  he  felt  so  lucid,  so  clear, like 
a window-pane which has been
washed   clean   and   now   lets   in   all   the   gloriously   frightening   
light   of   some   unsuspected
dawning; the  light,  oh God, that perfect rational light that clears the 
horizon somewhere in the
world every second.

' — eds oh my god bill ben someone he's lost his arm, his — '

He  looked  up  at  Beverly  and  saw  she  was  crying,  the  tears  coursing 
down her dirty cheeks
as  she  got  an  arm  under  him;  he  became  aware  that  she  had  taken  
off  her  blouse  and  was
trying  to  staunch  the  flow  of  blood,  and  that  she  was  screaming  for 
 help.  Then  he  looked  at


Richie  and  licked  his  lips.  Fading,  fading  back.  Becoming  clearer  and 
 clearer,  emptying  out,
all  of  the  impurities  flowing  out  of  him  so  he  could  become  clear,  
so  that  the  light  could  flow
through,  and  if  he  had  had  time  enough  he  could  have  preached  on  
this,  he  could  have
sermonized: Not bad,  he would begin.  This is not bad at all.  But there was 
something else he
had           to say first.

'Richie,' he whispered.

'What?' Richie was down on his hands and knees, staring at him desperately.

'Don't  call  me  Eds,'  he  said,  and  smiled.  He  raised  his  left  hand  
slowly and touched Richie's
cheek.  Richie  was  crying.  'You  know  I  .  .  .  I  .  .  .  '  Eddie  
closed  his  eyes,  thinking  how  to
finish, and while he was still thinking it over he died.

6

Derry / 7:00 - 9:00 A.M.

By  7:00  A.M.,  the  wind-speed  in  Derry  had  picked  up  to  about  
thirty-seven  miles  an  hour,
with  gusts  up  to  forty-five.  Harry  Brooks,  a  National  Weather  Service 
 forecaster  based  at
Bangor  International  Airport,  made  an  alarmed  call  to  NWS  headquarters 
 in  Augusta.  The
winds,  he  said,  were  coming  out  of  the  west  and  blowing  in  a  queer 
 semicircular  pattern  he
had  never  seen  before  .  .  .  but  it  looked  to  him  more  and  more  
like  some  weird  species  of
pocket  hurricane,  one  that  was  limited  almost  exclusively  to  Derry  
Township.  At  7:10,  the
major  Bangor  radio  stations  broadcast  the  first  severe-weather  
warnings.  The  explosion  of  the
power-transformer  at  Tracker  Brothers'  had  killed  the  power  all  over  
Derry  on  the  Kansas
Street          side of the Barrens. At 7:17, a hoary old maple on the Old Cape 
side of the Barrens fell
with  a  terrific  rending  crash,  flattening  a  Nite-Owl  store  on  the  
corner  of  Merit  Street  and
Cape  Avenue.  An  elderly  patron  named  Raymond  Fogarty  was  killed  by  a 
 toppling  beer
cooler.  This  was  the  same  Raymond  Fogarty  who,  as  the  minister  of  
the  First  Methodist
Church of Derry, had presided over the burial rites of George Denbrough in 
October of 1957.
The maple also pulled down enough power lines to knock out the power in both 
the Old Cape
and  the  somewhat  more  fashionable  Sherburn  Woods  development  beyond  
it.  The  clock  in
the  steeple  of  the  Grace  Baptist  Church  had  chimed  neither  six  nor  
seven.  At  7:20,  three
minutes  after  the  maple  fell  in  the  Old  Cape  and  about  an  hour  and 
 fifteen  minutes  after  every
toilet  and  domestic  drain  over  there  had  suddenly  reversed  itself,  
the  clock  in  the  tower
chimed  thirteen  times.  A  minute  later,  a  blue-white  stroke  of  
lightning  struck  the  steeple.
Heather  Libby,  the  minister's  wife,  happened  to  be  looking  out  the  
window  of  the  parsonage's
kitchen  at  the  time,  and  she  said  that the  steeple  'exploded  like  
someone  loaded  it  up  with
dynamite.'    Whitewashed    boards,    chunks    of    beams,    and    
clockwork    from    Switzerland
showered  down  on  the  street.  The  ragged  remains  of  the  steeple  
burned  briefly  and  then
guttered  out  in  the  rain,  which  was  now  a  tropical  downpour.  The  
streets  leading  downhill
into  the  downtown  shopping  area  foamed  and  ran.  The  progress  of  the  
Canal  under  Main
Street  had  become  a  steady  shaking  thunder  that  made  people  look  at  
each  other  uneasily.  At
7:25,  with  the  titanic  crash  of  the  Grace  Baptist  steeple  still  
reverberating  all  over  Derry,  the
janitor  who  came  into  Wally's  Spa  every  morning  except  Sunday  to  
swamp  the  place  out  saw
something  which  sent  him  screaming  into  the  street.  This  fellow,  who  
had  been  an  alcoholic
ever  since  his  first  semester  at  the  University  of  Maine  to  these  
eleven  years  ago,  was  paid  a
pittance  for  his  services  —  his  real  pay,  it  was  understood,  was  
his  absolute  freedom  to  finish
up  anything  left  in  the  beer  kegs  under  the  bar  from  the  night  
before. Richie Tozier might or
might  not  have  remembered  him;  he  was  Vincent  Caruso  Taliendo,  better 
 known  to  his  fifth-
grade  contemporaries  as  'Boogers'  Taliendo.  As  he  was  mopping  up  on  
that  apocalyptic


morning  in  Derry,  working  his  way  gradually  closer  and  closer  to  the 
 serving  area,  he  saw  all
seven  of  the  beer  taps  —  three  Bud,  two  Narragansett,  one  Schlitz  
(known  more  familiarly  to
the  bleary  patrons  of  Wally's  as  Slits),  and  one  Miller  Lite   —  nod 
 forward,  as  if  pulled  by
seven   invisible   hands.   Beer   ran   from  them  in  streams  of  
gold-white  foam.  Vince  started
forward,  thinking  not  of  ghosts  or  phantoms  but  of  his  morning's  
dividend  going  down  the
drain.  Then  he  skidded  to  a  stop,  eyes  widening,  and  a  wailing,  
horrified  scream  rose  in  the
empty,  beer-smelling  cave  that  was  Wally's  Spa.  Beer  had  given  way  
to  arterial  streams  of
blood.  It  swirled  in  the  chromium  drains,  overflowed,  and  ran  down  
the  side  of  the  bar  in
little  streamlets.  Now  hair  and  chunks  of  flesh  began  to  splurt  out  
of  the  beer-taps. 'Boogers'
Taliendo  watched  this,  transfixed,  not  even  able  to  summon  enough  
strength  to  scream  again.
Then there was a thudding, toneless blast as one of the beer kegs under the 
counter exploded.
All  of  the  cupboard  doors  under  the  bar  swung  wide.  Greenish  smoke,  
like the aftermath of a
magician's  trick,  began  to  drift  out  of  them.  'Boogers'  had  seen  
enough.  Screaming,  he  fled
into  the  street,  which  was  now  a  shallow  canal.  He  fell  on  his  
butt,  got  up,  and  threw  a
terrified   glance   back   over   his   shoulder.   One   of   the   bar  
windows  blew  out  with  a  loud
shooting-gallery   sound.   Whickers   of   broken   glass   whistled   all   
around   Vince's   head.   A
moment  later  the  other  window  exploded.  Once  again  he  was  
miraculously  untouched  .  .  .  but
he decided on the spur of the moment that the time had come to see his sister 
up Eastport. He
started off at once, and his journey to the Derry town limits and beyond would 
make a saga in
itself . . . but suffice it to say that he did eventually get out of town. 
Others were not so lucky.
Aloysius  Nell,  who  had  turned  seventy-seven  not  long  since,  was  
sitting  with  his  wife  in  the
parlor  of  their  home  on  Strapham  Street,  watching  the  storm  pound  
Derry.  At  7:32,  he
suffered  a  fatal  stroke.  His  wife  told  her  brother  a  week  later  
that  Aloysius  dropped  his  coffee
cup  on  the  rug,  sat  bolt-upright,  his  eyes  wide  and  staring,  and  
screamed:  'Here,  here,  me
foine girl! Just what in the hell do ye think ye're doin? Belay that guff 
before I snatch yer
pettiskimr  —  '   Then  he  fell  out  of  his  chair,  smashing  his  coffee  
cup  under  him.  Maureen
Nell,  who  knew  well  how  bad  his  ticker  had  been  for  the  last  three 
 years,  understood
immediately  that  all  was  over  with  him,  and  after  loosening  his  
collar  she  had  run  for  the
telephone  to  call  Father  McDowell.  But  the  phone  was  out  of  order.  
A  funny  noise  like  a
police  siren  was  all  it  would  make.  And  so,  although  she  knew  it  
was  probably  a  blasphemy
she  would  have  to  answer  for  to  Saint  Peter,  she  had  attempted  to  
give  him  the  last  rites
herself.  She  felt  confident,  she  told  her  brother, that God would 
understand even if Saint Peter
didn't. Aloysius had been a good husband and a good man, and if he drank too 
much, that was
only  the  Irish  in  him  coming  out.  At  7:49  a  series  of  explosions  
shook  the  Derry  Mall,  which
stood on the site of  the defunct Kitchener Ironworks. No one was killed; the 
mall didn't open
until  10:00,  and  the  five -man  janitorial  squad  hadn't  been  due  to  
arrive  until  8:00  (and  on
such   a   morning   as   this,   very   few   of   them   would   have   shown 
  up   anyway).   A   team   of
investigators  later  dismissed  the  idea  of  sabotage.  They  suggested  —  
rather  vaguely  —  that
the  explosions  had  probably  been  caused  by  water  which  had  seeped  
into  the  mall's  electrical
system.  Whatever  the  reason,  no  one  was  going  to  go  shopping  at  the 
 Derry  Mall  for  a long
time.  One  explosion  totally  wiped  out  Zale's  Jewelry  Store.  Diamond  
rings,  ID  bracelets,
strings  of  pearls,  trays  of  wedding  rings,  and  Seiko  digital  watches  
flew  everywhere  in  a  hail
of  bright,  sparkly  trinkets.  A  music -box  flew  the  length  of  the  
east corridor and landed in the
fountain  outside  of  the  J.  C.  Penney's,  where  it  briefly  played  a  
bubbly  rendition  of  the  theme
from  Love  Story   before  shutting  down.  The  same  blast  tore  a  hole  
through  the  Baskin-
Robbins  next  door,  turning  the  thirty-one  fla vors  into  ice-cream  soup 
 that  ran  away  along  the
floor  in  cloudy  runnels.  The  blast  which  tore  through  Sears  lifted  
off  a  chunk  of  the  roof  and
the  rising  wind  sailed  it  away  like  a  kite;  it  came  down  a  
thousand  yards  away,  slicing  cleanly
through   the   silo  of  a  farmer  named  Brent  Kilgallon.  Kilgallon's  
sixteen-year-old  son  rushed
out  with  his  mother's  Kodak  and  took  a  picture.  The  National Enquirer 
  bought it for sixty


dollars,   which   the   boy   used   to   buy   two   new   tires   for   his  
 Yamaha   motorcycle.   A   third
explosion  ripped  through  Hit  or  Miss,  sending  flaming  skirts,  jeans,  
and  underwear  out  into
the   flooded   parking-lot.   And   a   final   explosion   tore   open   the  
 mall   branch   of  the  Derry
Farmers'  Trust  like  a  rotted  box  of  crackers.  A  chunk  of  the  bank's 
 roof  was  also  torn off.
Burglar  alarms  went  off  with  a  bray  that  would  not  be  silenced  
until  the  security  system's
independent   wiring   hookup   was   shorted   out   four   hours   later.   
Loan   contracts,   banking
instruments,  deposit  slips,  cash-drawer  chits,  and  Money-Manager  forms  
were  lifted  into  the
sky  and  blown  away  by  the  rising  wind.  And  money:  tens  and  twenties 
 mostly,  with  a
generous  helping  of  fives  and  a  soupcon  of  fifties  and  hundreds.  
Better  than  $75,000  blew
away,  according  to  the  bank's  officers  .  .  .  Later,  after  a  mass  
shakeup in the bank's executive
structure  (and  an  FSLIC  bail-out),  some  would  admit  —  strictly  off  
the  record,  of  course  —
that  it  had  been  more  like  $200,000.  A  woman  in  Haven  Village  named 
 Rebecca  Paulson
found  a  fifty-dollar  bill  fluttering  from  her  back-door  welcome  mat,  
two  twenties  in  her  bird-
house,  and  a  hundred  plastered  against  an  oak  tree  in  her  back  
yard.  She  and  her  husband
used  the  money  to  make  an  extra  two  payments  on  their  Bombardier  
Skidoo.  Dr  Hale,  a
retired  doctor  who  had  lived  on  West  Broadway for nearly fifty years, 
was killed at 8:00  A.M.
Dr  Hale  liked  to  boast  that  he  had  taken  the  same  two-mile walk from 
his West Broadway
home  and  around  Derry  Park  and  the  Elementary  School  for  the  last  
twenty-five of those fifty
years.  Nothing  stopped  him;  not  rain,  sleet,  hail,  howling  
nor'easters,  or  subzero  cold.  He  set
out  on  the  morning  of  May  31st  in  spite  of  his  housekeeper's  
worried  fussings.  His  exit-line
from  the  world,  spoken  back  over  his  shoulder  as  he  went  through  
the  front  door,  pulling his
hat  firmly  down  to  his  ears,  was:  'Don't  be  so  goddamned  silly,  
Hilda.  This  is  nothing  but  a
capful  of  rain.  You  should  have  seen  it  in  '57!  That  was  a  storm!' 
 As  Dr  Hale  turned  back
onto  West  Broadway,  a  manhole  cover  in  front  of  the  Mueller  place   
suddenly  lifted  off  like
the pay load of a Redstone rocket. It decapitated the good doctor so quickly 
and neatly that he
walked   on   another   three   steps   before   collapsing,   dead,   on   the 
  sidewalk.   And   the   wind
continued to rise.

7

Under the City / 4:15 P.M.

Eddie  led  them  through  the  darkened  tunnels  for  an  hour,  perhaps  an  
hour  and  a  half,  before
admitting,  in  a  tone  that  was  more  bewildered  than  frightened,  that  
for  the  first  time  in  his  life
he was lost.

They  could  still  hear  the  dim  thunder  of  water in the drains, but the 
acoustics of all of these
tunnels  was  so  crazed  that  it  was  impossible  to  tell  if  the  
water-sounds  were  coming  from
ahead  or  behind,  left  or  right,  above  or  below.  Their  matches  were  
gone.  They  were  lost  in
the dark.

Bill  was  scared  .  .  .  plenty  scared.  The  conversation  he'd  had  with 
 his  father  in  his  father's

shop  kept  coming  back  to  him.  There's  nine  pounds  of  blueprints  that 
 just  disappeared
somewhere along the line . . . My point is that nobody knows where all the 
damned sewers
and drains go, or why. When they work, nobody cares. When they don't, there's 
three or four
sad sacks from Derry Water who have to try and find out which pump went flooey 
or where
the plug-up is . . . It's dark and smelly and there are rats. Those are all 
good reasons to stay
out, but the best reason is that you could get lost. It's happened before.

Happened before. Happened before. It's happened —

Sure  it  had.  There  was  that  bundle  of  bones  and  polished  cotton  
they  had  passed  on  the
way to Its lair, for instance.


Bill felt panic trying to rise and pushed it back. It went, but not easily. He 
could feel it back
there,  a  live  thing,  struggling  and  twisting,  trying  to  get  out.  
Adding  to  it  was  the  nagging
unanswerable  question  of  whether  they  had  killed  It  or  not.  Richie  
said  yes,  Mike  said  yes,  so
did         Eddie.  But  he  hadn't  liked  the  frightened  doubtful  look  on 
 Bev's  face,  or  on  Stan's,  as  the
light  died  and  they  crawled  back  through  the  small  door,  away  from  
the  susurating  collapsing
web.

'So  what  do  we  do  now?'  Stan  asked.  Bill  heard  the  frightened,  
little -boy  tremble  in  Stan's
voice and knew the question was aimed directly at him.

'Yeah,'  Ben  said.  'What?  Damn,  I  wish  we  had  a  flashlight  .  .  .  
or  even  a  can  .  .  .  candle.'

Bill  thought  he  heard  a  stifled  sob  in  the  second  ellipsis.  It  
frightened  him  more  than  anything
else.  Ben  would  have  been  astounded  to  know  it,  but  Bill  thought  
the  fat  boy  tough  and
resourceful,  steadier  than  Richie  and  less  apt  to  cave  in  suddenly  
than  Stan.  If  Ben  was
getting  ready  to  crack,  they  were  on  the  edge  of  very  bad  trouble.  
It  was  not  the  skeleton  of
the  Water  Department  guy  to  which  Bill's  own  mind  kept  returning  but 
 to  Tom  Sawyer  and
Becky  Thatcher,  lost  in  McDougal's  Cave.  He  would  push  the  thought  
away  and  then  it
would come stealing back.

Something  else  was  troubling  him,  but  the  concept  was  too  large  and  
too  vague  for  his
tired  boy's  mind  to  grasp.  Perhaps  it  was  the  very  simplicity  of  
the  idea  that  made  it  elusive:
they  were  falling  away  from  each  other.  The  bond  that  had  held  them 
 all  this  long  summer
was  dissolving.  It  had  been  faced  and  vanquished.  It  might  be  dead,  
as  Richie  and  Eddie
thought,  or  It  might  be  wounded  so  badly  It  would  sleep  for  a  
hundred  years,  or  a  thousand,
or     ten  thousand.  They  had  faced  It,  seen  It  with  Its  final  mask  
laid  aside,  and  It  had  been
horrible  enough  —  oh,  for  sure!  —  but  once  seen,  Its  physical  form  
was  not  so  bad  and  Its
most potent weapon was taken away from It. They all had, after all, seen 
spiders before. They
were  alien  and  somehow  crawlingly  dreadful,  and  he  supposed  that  none 
 of  them  would  ever
be able to see another one

(if we ever get out of this)

without  feeling  a  shudder  of  revulsion.  But  a  spider  was,  after  all, 
 only  a  spider.  Perhaps  at
the  end,  when  the  masks  of  horror  were  laid  aside,  there  was  
nothing  with  which  the  human
mind could not cope. That was a heartening thought. Anything except

(the deadlights)

whatever   had   been   out   there,   but   perhaps   even   that   
unspeakable   living   light   which
crouched  at  the  doorway  to  the  macroverse  was  dead  or  dying.  The  
deadlights, and the trip
into  the  black  to  the  place  where  they  had  been,  was  already  
growing  hazy  and  hard  to  recall
in  his  mind.  And  that  wasn't  really  the  point.  The  point,  felt  but  
not  grasped, was simply that
the  fellowship  was  ending  .  .  .  it  was  ending  and  they  were  still  
in  the  dark.  That  Other  had
through  their  friendship,  perhaps  been  able  to  make  them  something  
more  than  children.  But
they were becoming children again. Bill felt it as much as the others.

'What now, Bill?' Richie asked, finally saying it right out.

'I  d-d-don't  nuh-nuh-know,' Bill said. His stutter was back, alive and well. 
He heard it, they
heard   it,   and   he   stood   in   the   dark,   smelling   the   sodden   
aroma   of   their  growing  panic,
wondering  how  long  it  would  be  before  somebody  —  Stan,  most  likely  
it  would  be  Stan   —
tore things wide open by saying: Well, why don't you know? You got us into 
this!

'And what about Henry?' Mike asked uneasily. 'Is he still out there, or what?'

'Oh,  Jeez,'  Eddie  said  .  .  .  almost  moaned.  'I  forgot  about  him.  
Sure he is,  sure  he is, he's
probably as lost as we are and we could run into him any time . . . Jeez, Bill, 
don't you have
any ideas? Your dad works down here! Don't you have any ideas at all?'

Bill  listened  to  the  distant  mocking  thunder  of  the  water  and  tried  
to  have  the  idea  that
Eddie  —  all  of  them  —  had a right to demand. Because yes, correct, he had 
gotten them into
this and it was his responsibility to get them back out again. Nothing came. 
Nothing.


'I have an idea,' Beverly said quietly.

In  the  dark,  Bill  heard  a  sound  he  could  not  immediately  place.  A  
whispery  little  sound,  but
not scary. Then there was a more easily placed sound . . . a zipper.  What  —  
? he thought, and
then he realized what. She was undressing. For some reason, Beverly was 
undressing.

'What are you doing? Richie asked, and his shocked voice cracked on the last 
word.

'I  know  something,'  Beverly  said  in  the  dark,  and  to  Bill  her  voice 
 sounded  older.  'I  know
because  my  father  told  me.  I  know  how  to  bring  us  back  together.  
And  if  we're  not  together
we'll never get out.'

'What?' Ben asked, sounding bewildered and terrified. 'What are you talking 
about?'

'Something that will bring us together forever. Something that will show — '

'Nuh-Nuh-No, B-B-Beverly!' Bill said, suddenly understanding, understanding 
everything.
' — that will show that I love you all,' Beverly said, 'that you're all my 
friends.'

'What's she t — ' Mike began.

Calmly, Beverly cut across his words. 'Who's first?' she asked. 'I think

8

In the Lair of It / 1985

he's  dying,'  Beverly  wept.  'His  arm,  It  ate  his  arm  —  She  reached  
for  Bill,  clung  to  him,
and Bill shook her off.

'It's  getting  away again!'  he roared at her. Blood caked his lips and chin.  
'Cuh-Cuh-Come
on! Richie! B-B-Ben! This tuh-time we're g-g-going to fuh-hinish her!'

Richie  turned  Bill  toward  him,  looked  at  him  as  you  would  look  at  
a  man  who  is  hopelessly
raving.  'Bill,  we  have  to  take  care  of  Eddie.  We  have  to  get  a  
tourniquet  on  him,  get  him  out
of here.'

But  Beverly  was  now  sitting  with  Eddie's  head  in  her  lap,  cradling  
him.  She  had  closed  his
eyes.  'Go  with  Bill,'  she  said.  'If  you  let  him  die  for  nothing  .  
if  It  comes  back  in  another
twenty-five years, or fifty, or even two thousand, I swear I'll . . . I'll 
haunt your ghosts. Go!'

Richie  looked  at  her  for  a  moment,  indecisive.  Then  he  became  aware  
that  her  face  was
losing  definition,  becoming  not  a  face  but  a  pale  shape  in  the  
growing  shadows.  The  light  was
fading. It decided him. 'All right,' he said to Bill. 'This time we chase.'

Ben  was  standing  in  back  of  the  spiderweb,  which  had  begun  to  decay 
 again.  He  had  also

seen the shape swaying high up in it, and he prayed that Bill would not look 
up.

But as the web began to fall in drifts and strands and skeins, Bill did.

He  saw  Audra,  sagging  as  if  in  a  very  old  and  creaky  elevator.  She 
 dropped  ten  feet,
stopped,  swaying  from  side  to  side,  and  then  abruptly  dropped  another 
 fifteen.  Her  face  never
changed.  Her  eyes,  china-blue,  were  wide  open.  Her  bare  feet  swung  
back  and  forth  like
pendulums. Her hair hung lankly over her shoulders. Her mouth was ajar.

'AUDRA!' he screamed.

'Bill, come on!' Ben shouted.

The  web  was  falling  all  around  them  now,  thudding  to  the  floor  and  
beginning  to  run.
Richie  suddenly  grabbed  Bill  around  the  waist,  and  propelled  him  
forward,  shooting  for  a  ten-
foot-high  gap  between  the  floor  and  the  bottommost  cross-strand  of  
the  sagging  web.  'Go,
Bill! Go! Go!'

'That's Audra!' Bill shouted desperately. 'Thuh-That's AUDRA!'

'I  don't  give  a  shit  if  it's  the  Pope,'  Richie  said  grimly.  
'Eddie's  dead  and  we're  going  to  kill
It,  if  It's  still  alive.  We're  going  to  finish  the  job  this  time,  
Big  Bill.  Either  she's  alive  or  she's
not. Now come on!'


Bill  hung  back  a  moment  longer,  and  then  snapshots  of  the  children,  
all  the  dead  children,
seemed   to   flutter   through   his   mind   like   lost   photographs   from 
  George's   album.   SCHOOL
FRIENDS.

'A-A11 ruh-right. Let's g-go. Guh-Guh-God forgive m-me.'

He  and  Richie  ran  under  the  strand  of  cross-webbing  seconds  before  
it  collapsed,  and
joined  Ben  on  the  other  side.  They  ran  after  It  as  Audra  swung  and 
 dangled  fifty  feet  above
the stone floor, wrapped in a numbing cocoon that was attached to the decaying 
web.

9

Ben

They  followed  the  trail  of  Its  black  blood  —  oily  pools  of  ichor  
that  ran  and  dripped  into  the
cracks  between  the  flagstones.  But  as  the  floor  began  to  rise  toward 
 a  semicircular  black
opening  at  the  far  side  of  the  chamber,  Ben  saw  something  new:  a  
trail  of  eggs.  Each  was
black  and  rough-shelled,  perhaps  as  big  as  an  ostrich-egg.  A  waxy  
light  shone  from  within
them. Ben realized they were semi-transparent; he could see bla ck shapes 
moving inside.

Its children, he thought, and felt his gorge rise. Its miscarried children. 
God! God!
Richie and Bill had stopped and were staring at the eggs with stupid, dazed 
wonder.
'Go on! Go on!' Ben shouted. 'I'll take care of them! Get It!'

'Here!' Richie shouted, and threw Ben a pack of Derry Town House matches.

Ben  caught  them.  Bill  and  Richie  ran  on.  Ben  watched  them  in  the  
rapidly  dimming  light
for  a  moment.  They  ran  into  the  darkness  of  Its  escape-passage  and  
were  lost from sight.
Then  he  looked  down  at  the  first  of  the  thin-shelled  eggs,  at  the  
black,  mantalike  shadow
inside,  and  felt  his  determination  waver.  This  .  .  .  hey  guys,  this 
 was  too  much.  This  was
simply  too  awful.  And  surely  they  would  die  without  his  help; they 
had not been so much laid
as dropped.

But It's time was close . . . and if one of them is capable of surviving . . . 
even one . . .

Summoning  all  of  his  courage,  summoning  up  Eddie's  pale,  dying  face,  
Ben  brought  one
Desert  Driver  boot  down  on  the  first  egg.  It  broke  with  a  sodden  
squelch  as  some  stinking
placenta ran out around his boot. Then a spider the size of a rat was 
scrabbling weakly across
the  floor,  trying  to  get  away,  and  Ben  could  hear  it  in  his  head,  
its  high  mewling  cries  like the
sound of a handsaw being bent rapidly back and forth so that it makes 
ghost-music.

Ben  lurched  after  it  on  legs  that  felt  like  stilts  and  brought  his  
foot  down  again.  He  felt  the
spider's  body  crunch  and  splatter  under  the  heel  of  his  boot.  His  
gorge clenched and this time
there  was  no  way  he  could  hold  back.  He  vomited,  then  twisted  his  
heel,  grinding  the  thing
into the stones, listening to the cries in his head fade to nothing.

How many? How many eggs? Didn't I read somewhere that spiders can lay thousands 
. . .

or millions? I can't keep doing this, I'll go mad —

You have to. You have to. Come on, Ben . . . get it together!

He  went  to  the  next  egg  and  repeated  the  process  in  the  last  of  
the  dying  lieht  Everything
was  repeated:  the  brittle  snap,  the  squelch  of  liquid,  the  final  
coup  de  grâce.  The next. The
next.  The  next.  Making  his  way  slowly  toward  the  black  arch  into  
which  his  friends  had  gone.
The  darkness  was  complete  now  Beverly  and  the  decaying  web  somewhere  
behind  him.  He
could  still  hear  the  whisper  of  its  collapse.  The  eggs  were  pallid  
stones  in  the  dark.  As  he
reached each one he struck a light from the matchbook and broke it open. In 
each case he was
able  to  follow  the  course  of  the  dazed  spiderling  and  crush  it  
before  the  light flickered out. He
had  no  idea  how  he  was  going  to  proceed  if  his  matches  gave  out  
before  he  had  crushed  the
last of the eggs and killed each one's unspeakable cargo.


10

It / 1985

Still coming.

It sensed them still coming, gaining, and Its fear  grew. Perhaps It was not 
eternal after all

— the unthinkable must finally be thought. Worse, It sensed the death of Its 
young. A third of
these hated hateful men  — boys was walking steadily up Its trail of birth, 
almost insane with
revulsion but continuing nonetheless, methodically stamping the life from each 
of Its eggs.

No!  It  wailed,  lurching  from  side  to  side,  feeling  Its  life-force  
running  from  a  hundred
wounds, none of them mortal in itself, but each a song of pain, each slowing 
It. One of Its
legs  hung  by  a  single  living  twist  of  meat.  One  of  Its  eyes  was  
blind.  It  sensed  a  terrible
rupture inside, the result of whatever poison one of the hated men-boys had 
managed to shoot
down Its throat.

And still they came on, closing the distance, and how could this happen? It 
whined and
mewled,  and  when  It  sensed  them  almost  directly  behind,  It  did  the  
only  thing  It  could  do
now: It turned to fight.

11

Beverly

Before  the  last  of  the  light  faded  and  utter  dark  closed  down,  she  
saw  Bill's  wife  plunge
another  twenty  feet  and  then  fetch  up  again.  She  had  begun  to  spin, 
 her  long  red  hair  fanning
out. His wife,  she thought.  But I was his first love, and if he thought some 
other woman was
his first, it was only because he forgot . . . forgot Derry.

Then   she  was  in  darkness,  alone  with  the  sound  of  the  falling  web  
and  Eddie's  simple
moveless  weight.  She  didn't  want  to  let  him  go,  didn't  want  to  let  
his  face  lie  on  the  foul  floor
of  this  place.  So  she  held  his  head  in  the  crook  of  an  arm  that  
had  gone  mostly  numb and
brushed  his  hair  away  from  his  damp  forehead.  She  thought  of  the  
birds  .  .  .  that  was
something  she  supposed  she  had  gotten  from  Stan.  Poor  Stan,  who  
hadn't  been  able  to  face
this.

All of them . . . I was their first love.

She  tried  to  remember  it   —  it  was  something  good  to  think  about  
in  all  this  darkness,
where you couldn't place the sounds. It made her feel less alone. At first it 
wouldn't come; the
image  of  the  birds  intervened  —  crows  and  grackles  and  starlings,  
spring  birds  that  came
back  from  somewhere  while  the  streets  were  still  running  with  
meltwater  and  the  last  patches
of crusted dirty snow clung grimly to their shady places.

It  seemed  to  her  that  it  was  always  on  a  cloudy  day  that  you  
first  heard  and  saw  those
spring  birds  and  wondered  where  they  came  from.  Suddenly  they  were  
just  back  in  Derry,
filling  the  white  air  with  their  raucous  chatter.  They  lined  the  
telephone  wires  and  roofpeaks
of  the  Victorian  houses  on  West  Broadway;  they  jostled  for  places  on 
 the  aluminum  branches
of the elaborate TV antenna on top of Wally's Spa; they loaded the wet black 
branches of the
elms  on  Lower  Main  Street.  They  settled,  they  talked  to  each  other  
in  the  screamy  babbling
voices  of  old  countrywomen  at  the  weekly  Grange  Bingo  games,  and  
then,  at  some  signal
which  humans  could  not  discern,  they  all  took  wing  at  once,  turning  
the  sky  black  with  their
numbers . . . and came down somewhere else.

Yes, the birds, I was thinking of them because I was ashamed. It was my father 
who made
me ashamed, I guess, and maybe that was It's doing, too. Maybe.


The memory came  —  the  memory  behind  the  birds  —  but  it  was  vague  
and  disconnected.

Perhaps this one always would be. She had —

Her thoughts broke off as she realized that Eddie

12

Love and Desire / August 10th, 1958

comes to her first, because he is the most frightened. He comes to her not as 
her friend of that
summer, or as her brief lover now, but the way he would have come to his mother 
only three
or four years ago, to be comforted; he doesn't draw back from her smooth 
nakedness and at
first she doubts if he even feels it. He is trembling, and although she holds 
him the darkness is
so perfect that even this close she cannot see him; except for the rough cast 
he might as well
be a phantom.

'What do you want?' he asks her.

'You have to put your thing in me,' she says.

He  tries  to  pull  back  but  she  holds  him  and  he  subsides  against  
her.  She  has  heard
someone — Ben, she thinks — draw in his breath.

'Bevvie, I can't do that. I don't know how — '

'I  think  it's  easy.  But  you'll  have  to  get  undressed.'  She  thinks  
about  the  intricacies  of
managing  cast  and  shirt,  first  somehow  separating  and  then  rejoining  
them,  and  amends,
'Your pants, anyway.'

'No,  I  can't!'  But  she  thinks   part  of  him  can,  and  wants  to,  
because  his  trembling  has
stopped and she feels something small and hard which presses against the right 
side of her
belly.

'You  can,'  she  says,  and  pulls  him  down.  The  surface  beneath  her  
bare  back  and  legs  is
firm,  clayey, dry. The distant thunder of the water is drowsy, soothing. She 
reaches for him.

There's a moment when her father's face intervenes, harsh and forbidding

(I want to see if you're intact)

and  then  she  closes  her  arms  around  Eddie's  neck,  her  smooth cheek 
against his smooth
cheek, and as he tentatively touches her small breasts she sighs and thinks for 
the first time
This is Eddie  and  she  remembers  a  day  in  July  —  could  it  only  have  
been  last  month?  —
when no one else turned up in the Barrens but Eddie, and he had a whole bunch 
of Little Lulu
comic  books  and  they  read  together  for  most  of  the  afternoon,  Little 
 Lulu  looking  for
beebleberries  and  getting  in  all  sorts  of  crazy  situations,  Witch  
Hazel,  all  of  those  guys.  It
had       been fun.

She thinks of birds; in particular of the grackles and starlings and crows that 
come back in
the spring, and her hands go to his belt and loosen it, and he says again that 
he can't do that;
she tells him that he can, she knows he can, and what she feels is not shame or 
fear now but a
kind of triumph.

'Where?' he says, and that hard thing pushes urgently against her inner thigh.
'Here,' she says.

'Bevvie, I'll fall on you!' he says, and she hears his breath start to whistle 
painfully.

'I  think  that's  sort  of  the  idea,'  she  tells  him  and  holds  him  
gently  and  guides  him.  He
pushes forward too fast and there is pain.

Ssssss! — she draws her breath in, her teeth biting at her lower lip and thinks 
of the birds
again,  the  spring  birds,  lining  the  roofpeaks  of  houses,  taking  wing  
all  at  once  under  low
March clouds.

'Beverly?' he says uncertainly. 'Are you okay?'


'Go slower,' she says. 'It'll be easier for you to breathe.' He does move more 
slowly, and
after awhile his breathing speeds up but she understands this is not because 
there is anything
wrong with him.

The pain fades. Suddenly he moves more quickly, then stops, stiffens, and makes 
a sound —
some  sound.  She  senses  that  this  is  something  for  him,  something  
extraordinarily,  special,
something like . . . like flying. She feels powerful: she feels a sense of 
triumph rise up strongly
within her. Is this what her father was afraid of? Well he might be! There was 
power in this
act, all right, a chain-breaking power that was blood-deep. She feels no  
physical pleasure,
but there is a kind of mental ecstasy in it for her. She senses the closeness. 
He puts his face
against her neck and she holds him. He's crying. She holds him. And feels the 
part of him that
made  a  connection  between  them  begin  to  fade.  It  is  not  leaving  
her,  exactly;  it  is  simply
fading, becoming less.

When his weight shifts away she sits up and touches his face in the darkness.
'Did you?'.

'Did I what?'

'Whatever it is. I don't know, exactly.'

He shakes his head — she feels it with her hand against his cheek.

'I don't think it was exactly like . . . you know, like the big boys say. But 
it was . . . it was
really something.' He speaks low so the others can't hear. 'I love you, 
Bevvie.'

Her  consciousness  breaks  down  a  little  there.  She's  quite  sure  
there's  more  talk,  some
whispered, some loud, and can't remember what is said. It doesn't matter. Does 
she have to
talk each of them into it all over again? Yes, probably. But it doesn't matter. 
They have to be
talked  into  it,  this  essential  human  link  between  the  world  and  the  
infinite,  the  only  place
where the bloodstream touches eternity. It doesn't matter. What matters is love 
and desire.
Here in this dark is as good a place as any. Better than some, maybe.

Mike comes to her, then Richie, and the act is repeated. Now she feels some 
pleasure, dim
heat  in  her  childish  unmatured  sex,  and  she  closes  her  eyes  as  Stan 
 comes  to  her  and  she
thinks of the birds, spring and the birds, and she sees them, again and again, 
all lighting at
once, filling up the winter-naked trees, shockwave riders on the moving edge of 
nature's most
violent season, she sees them take wing again and again, the flutter of their 
wings like the
snap of many sheets on the line, and she thinks:  A month from now every kid in 
Derry Park
will  have  a  kite,  they'll  run  to  keep  the  strings  from  getting  
tangled  with  each  other.  She
thinks again: This is what flying is like.

With Stan as with the others, there is that rueful sense of fading, of leaving, 
with whatever
they truly need from this act — some ultimate — close but as yet unfound.

'Did you?' she asks again, and although she doesn't know exactly what 'it' is, 
she knows
that he hasn't.

There is a long wait, and then Ben comes to her.

He is trembling all over, but it is not the fearful trembling she felt in Stan.

'Beverly, I can't,' he says in a tone which purports to be reasonable and is 
anything but.
'You can too. I can feel it.'

She sure can. There's more of this hardness; more of him. She can feel it below 
the gentle

push  of  his  belly.  Its  size  raises  a  certain  curiosity  and  she  
touches  the  bulge  lightly.  He
groans  against  her  neck,  and  the  blow  of  his  breath  causes  her  bare 
 body  to  dimple  with
goosebumps. She feels the first twist of real heat race through her — suddenly 
the feeling in
her            is very large; she recognizes that it is too big

(and is he too big, can she take that into herself?)

and too old for her, something, some feeling that walks in boots. This is like  
Henry's M-
80s, something not meant for kids, something that could explode and blow you 
up. But this


was not the place or time for worry; here there was love, desire, and the dark. 
If they didn't
try for the first two they would surely be left with the last .

'Beverly, don't — '
'Yes.'

'Show me how to fly,' she says with a calmness she doesn't feel, aware by the 
fresh wet
warmth on her cheek and neck that he has begun to cry. 'Show me, Ben.'

'No . . . '

'If you wrote the poem, show me. Feel my hair if you want to, Ben. It's all 
right.'
'Beverly . . . I . . . I . . . '

He's not just trembling now; he's shaking all over. But she senses again that 
this ague is
not all fear — part of it is the precursor of the throe this act is all about. 
She thinks of

(the birds)

his face, his dear sweet earnest face, and knows it is not fear; it is wanting 
he feels, a deep
passionate  wanting  now  barely  held  in  check,  and  she  feels  that  
sense  of  power  again,
something like flying, something like looking down from above and seeing all 
the birds on the
roofpeaks,  on  the  TV  antenna  atop  Wally's,  seeing  streets  spread  out  
maplike,  oh  desire,
right, this was something, it was love and desire that taught you to fly.

'Ben! Yes!' she cries suddenly, and the leash breaks.

She feels pain again, and for a moment there is the frightening sensation of 
being crushed.

Then he props himself up on the palms of his hands and that feeling is gone.

He's big, oh yes  — the  pain  is  back,  and  it's  much  deeper than when 
Eddie first entered
her. She has to bite her lip again and think of the birds until the burning is 
gone. But it does
go, and she is able to reach up and touch his lips with one finger, and he 
moans.

The  heat  is  back,  and  she  feels  her  power  suddenly shift to him; she 
gives it gladly and
goes  with  it.  There  is  a  sensation  first  of  being  rocked,  of  a  
delicious  spiralling  sweetness
which makes her begin to turn her head helplessly from side to side, and a 
tuneless humming
comes  from  between  her  closed  lips,  this  is  flying,  this,  oh  love,  
oh  desire,  oh  this  is
something impossible to deny, binding, giving, making a strong circle: binding, 
giving . . .
flying.

'Oh Ben, oh my dear, yes,' she whispers, feeling the sweat stand out on her 
face, feeling
their connection, something firmly in place, something like eternity, the 
number 8 rocked over
on its side. 'I love you so much, dear.'

And she feels the thing begin to happen — something of which the girls who 
whisper and
giggle  about  sex  in  the  girls'  room  have  no  idea,  at  least  as  far  
as  she  knows;  they  only
marvel at how gooshy sex must be, and now she realizes that for many of them 
sex must be
some unrealized undefined monster; they refer to the act as It. Would you do 
It, do your sister
and her boyfriend do It, do your mom and dad still do It, and how they never 
intend to do It;
oh  yes,  you  would  think  that  the  whole  girls'  side  of  the  
fifth-grade class was made up of
spinsters-to-be,  and  it  is  obvious  to  Beverly  that  none  of  them  can  
suspect  this  .  .  .  this
conclusion, and she is only kept from screaming by her knowledge that the 
others will hear
and think her badly hurt. She puts the side of her hand in her mouth and bites 
down hard. She
understands the screamy laughter of Greta Bowie and Sally Mueller and all the 
others better
now: hadn't they, the seven of them, spent most of this, the longest, scariest 
summer of their
lives,  laughing  like  loons?  You  laugh  because  what's  fearful  and  
unknown  is  also  what's
funny, you laugh the way a small child will sometimes laugh and cry at the same 
time when a
capering  circus  clown  approaches,  knowing  it  is  supposed  to  be  funny  
.  .  .  but  it  is  also
unknown, full of the unknown's eternal power.

Biting  her  hand  will  not  stay  the  cry,  and  she  can  only  reassure 
them  — and Ben  — by
crying out her affirmative in the darkness.


'Yes! Yes! Yes!'  Glorious images of flight fill her head, mixing with the 
harsh calling of
the grackles and starlings; these sounds become the world's sweetest music.

So  she  flies, she flies up, and now the power is not with her or with him but 
somewhere
between them, and he cries out, and she can feel his arms trembling, and she 
arches up and
into him, feeling his spasm, his touch, his total fleeting intimacy with her in 
the dark. They
break through into the lifelight together.

Then it is over and they are in each other's arms and when he tries to say 
something —
perhaps some stupid apology that would hurt what she remembers, some stupid 
apology like
a handcuff, she stops his words with a kiss and sends him away.

Bill comes to her.

He tries to say something, but his stutter is almost total now.

'You  be  quiet,'  she  says,  secure  in  her  new  knowledge,  but  aware  
that  she  is  tired  now.
Tired and damned sore. The insides  and backs of her thighs feel sticky, and 
she thinks it's
maybe because Ben actually finished, or maybe because she is bleeding. 
'Everything is going
to be totally okay.'

'A-A-Are you shuh-shuh-shuh-hure?'

'Yes,' she says, and links her hands behind his neck, feeling the sweaty mat of 
his hair. 'You
just bet.'

'Duh-duh-does ih-ih . . . does ih-ih-ih — '

'Shhh . . . '

It is not as it was with Ben; there is passion, but not the same kind. Being 
with Bill now is
the  best  conclusion  to  this  that there could be. He is kind; tender; just 
short of calm. She
senses his eagerness, but it is tempered and held back by his anxiety for her, 
perhaps because
only  Bill  and  she  herself  realize  what  an  enormous  act  this  is,  and 
 how  it  must  never  be
spoken of, not to anyone else, not even to each other.

At  the  end,  she  is  surprised  by  that  sudden  upsurge  and  she  has  
time  to  think:  Oh! It's
going to happen again, I don't know if I can stand it —

But  her  thoughts  are  swept  away  by  the  utter  sweetness  of it, and she 
barely hears him
whispering, 'I love you, Bev, I love you, I'll always love you' saying it over 
and over and not
stuttering at all.

She hugs him to her and for a moment they stay that way, his smooth cheek 
against hers.

He  withdraws  from her without saying anything and for a little while she's 
alone, putting
her clothes back together, slowly putting them on, aware of a dull throbbing 
pain of which
they, being male, will never know, aware also of a certain exhausted pleasure 
and the relief
of having it over. There is an emptiness down there now, and although she is 
glad that her
sex  is  her  own  again,  the  emptiness  imparts  a  strange  melancholy  
which  she  could  never
express . . . except to think of bare trees under a white winter sky, empty 
trees, trees waiting
for blackbirds to come like ministers at the end of March to preside over the 
death of snow.

She finds them by groping for their hands.

For a moment no one speaks and when someone does, it does not surprise her much 
that
it's Eddie. 'I think when we went right two turns back, we shoulda gone left. 
Jeez, I knew that,
but I was so sweaty and frigged up — '

'Been frigged up your whole life, Eds,' Richie says. His voice is pleasant. The 
raw edge of
panic is completely gone.

'We went wrong some other places too,' Eddie says, ignoring him, 'but that's 
the worst one.

If we can find our way back there, we just might be okay.'

They  form  up  in  a  clumsy  line,  Eddie  first,  Beverly  second  now,  her 
 hand  on  Eddie's
shoulder as Mike's is on hers. They begin to move again, faster this time. 
Eddie displays none
of    his former nervous care.


We're going home,  she thinks, and shivers with relief and joy.  Home, yes. And 
that will be
good.  We've  done  our  job,  what  we  came  for,  now  we  can go back to 
just being kids again.
And that will be good, too.

As they move through the dark she realizes the sound of running water is 
closer.


C H A P T E R  2 3

Out

1

Derry / 9:00 - 10:00 A.M.

By  ten  past  nine,  Derry  windspeeds  were  being  clocked  at  an  average  
of  fifty-five  miles  an
hour,  with  gusts  up  to  seventy.  The  anemometer  in  the  courthouse  
registered  one  gust  of
eighty-one,  and  then  the  needle  dropped  all  the  way  back  to  zero.  
The  wind  had  ripped  the
whirling  cuplike  device  on  the  courthouse  roof  off  its  moorings  and  
it  flew  away  into  the
rainswept  dimness  of  the  day.  Like  George  Denbrough's  boat,  it  was  
never  seen  again.  By
nine-thirty,  the  thing  the  Derry  Water  Department  had  sworn  was  now  
impossible  seemed  not
only  possible  but  imminent:  that  downtown  Derry  might  be  flooded  for  
the  first  time  since
August  of  1958,  when  many  of  the  old  drains  had  clogged  up  or  
caved  in  during  a  freak
rainstorm.  By  quarter  often,  men  with  grim  faces  were  arriving  in  
cars  and  pick-up  trucks
along   both   sides   of   the   Canal,   their   foul-weather  gear  rippling 
 crazily  in  the  freight-train
wind.  For  the  first  time  since  October  of  1957,  sandbags  began  to  
go  up  along  the  Canal's
cement  sides.  The  arch  where  the  Canal  went  under  the  three-way  
intersection  at  the  heart of
Derry's  downtown  area  was  full  almost  to  the  top;  Main  Street,  Canal 
 Street,  and  the  foot  of
Up-Mile  Hill  were  impassable  except  by  foot,  and  those  who  splashed  
and  hurried  their  way
toward  the  sandbagging  operation  felt  the  very  streets  beneath  their   
feet  trembling  with  the
frenzied  flow  of  the  water,  the  way  a  turnpike  overpass  will  tremble 
 when  big  trucks  pass
each  other.  But  this  was  a  steady  vibration,  and  the  men  were  glad  
to  be  on  the  north  side  of
downtown,  away  from  that  steady  rumbling  that  was  felt  rather  than  
heard.  Harold  Gardener
shouted  at  Alfred  Zitner,  who  ran  Zitner's  Realty  on  the  west  side  
of  town,  asked  him  if  the
streets  were  going  to  collapse.  Zitner  said  hell  would  freeze  over  
before  something  like  that
happened.  Harold  had  a  brief  image  of  Adolf  Hitler  and  Judas  
Iscariot  handing  out  ice-skates
and went on heaving sandbags. The water was now less than three inches below 
the top of the
Canal's  cement  walls.  In  the  Barrens  the  Kenduskeag  was  already  out  
of  its  banks,  and  by
noon   the  luxuriant  undergrowth  and  scrub  trees  would  be  poking  out  
of  a  vast  shallow,
stinking  lake.  The  men  continued  to  work,  pausing  only  when  the  
supply  of  sandbags  ran  out

.  .  .  and  then,  at  ten  of  ten,  they  were  frozen  by  a  great  
rending  ripping  sound.  Harold

Gardener  later  told  his  wife  he  thought  maybe  the  end  of  the  world  
had  come.  It  wasn't
downtown  falling  into  the  earth  —  not  then  —  it  was  the  Standpipe.  
Only  Andrew  Keene,
Norbert  Keene's  grandson,  actually  saw  it  happen,  and  he  had  smoked  
so  much  Colombian
Red  that  morning  that  at  first  he  thought  it  had  to  be  a  
hallucination.  He  had  been  wandering
Derry's  stormswept  streets  since  about  eight  o'clock,  roughly  the  same 
 time  that  Dr  Hale  was
ascending  to  that  great  family  medical  practice  in  the  sky.  He  was  
drenched  to  the  skin
(except  for  the  two-ounce  baggie  of  pot  tucked  up  into  his  armpit,  
that  was)  but  totally
unaware  of  it.  His  eyes  widened  in  disbelief.  He  had  reached  
Memorial  Park,  which  stood  on
the  flank  of  Standpipe  Hill.  And  unless  he  was  wrong,  the  Standpipe  
now  had  a  pronounced
lean,  like that fucked-up tower in Pisa that was on all the macaroni boxes. 
'Oh,  wow!' Andrew
Keene  cried,  his  eyes  widening  even  more  —  they  looked  as  if  they  
might  be  on  small  tough
springs  now  —  as  the  splintering  sounds  began.  The  Standpipe's  lean  
was  becoming  more
and  more  acute  as  he  stood  there  with  his  jeans  plastered  to  his  
skinny  shanks  and  his


drenched  paisley  headband  dripping  water  into  his  eyes.  White  shingles 
 were  popping  off  the
downtown  side  of  the  great  round  water-tower  .  .  .  no,  not  exactly  
popping  off;  it  was  more
like they were  squirting  off.  And  a  definite  crinkle  had  appeared  
about  twenty  feet  above  the
Standpipe's  stone  foundation.  Water  suddenly  began  to  spray  out  
through  this  crinkle,  and
now  the  shingles  weren't  squirting  off  the  Standpipe's  downtown  side;  
they  were  spewing  into
the windstream. A rending sound began to come from the Standpipe, and Andrew 
could  see it
moving,  like  the  hand  of  a  great  clock  inclining  from  noon  to  one  
to  two.  The  baggie of pot
fell  out  of  his  armpit  and  fetched  up  inside  his  shirt  somewhere  
near  his  belt.  He  didn't  notice.
He  was  utterly  fetched.  Large  twanging  sounds  came  from  inside  the  
Standpipe,  as  if  the
strings  of  the  world's  biggest  guitar  were  being  broken  one  by  one.  
These  were  the  cables
inside   the   cylinder,   which   had   provided   the   proper   balance   of 
  stress   against   the   water-
pressure.  The  Standpipe  began  to  heel  over  faster  and  faster,  boards  
and  beams  ripping  apart,
splinters  jumping  and  whirling  into  the  air.  'FAAAR  FUCKING  OWWWWT!'   
Andrew Keene
shrieked,  but  it  was  lost  in  the  Standpipe's  final  crashing  fall,  
and  by  the  rising  sound  of  one
and  three-quarter  million  gallons  of  water,  seven  thousand  tons  of  
water,  pouring  out  of  the
building's  ruptured  spouting  side.  It  went  in  a  gray  tidal  wave,  and 
 of  course  if  Andrew  Keene
had  been  on  the  downhill  side  of  the  Standpipe,  he  would  have  
exited  the  world  in  no  time.
But  God  favors  drunks,  small  children,  and  the  cataclysmically  stoned; 
 Andrew  was  standing
in a  place where he could see it all and not be touched by a single drop.  
'GREAT FUCKING
SPECIAL EFFECTS!'  Andrew  screamed  as  the  water  rolled  over  Memorial  
Park  like  a  solid
thing,  sweeping  away  the  sundial  beside  which  a  small  boy  named  Stan 
 Uris  had  often  stood
watching  birds  with  his  father's  field  glasses.  'STEVEN  SPIELBERG  EAT  
YOUR  HEART
OUT!'  The  stone  birdbath  also  went.  Andrew  saw  it  for  a  moment,  
turning  over  and  over,
pedestal  for  dish  and  dish  for  pedestal,  and  then  it  was  gone.  A  
line  of  maples  and  birches
separating  Memorial  Park  from  Kansas  Street  were  knocked  down  like  so 
 many  pins  in  a
bowling  alley.  They  took  wild  spiky  snarls  of  power  lines  with  them. 
 The  water  rolled  across
the   street,   beginning   to   spread   now,   beginning   to   look   more   
like   water  than  that  mind-
boggling  solid  wall  that  had  taken  sundial,  birdbath,  and  trees,  but  
it  still  had  power  enough
to sweep almost a dozen houses on the far side of Kansas Street off their 
foundations and into
the   Barrens.   They   went   with   sickening   ease,   most   of   them   
still   whole.   Andrew   Keene
recognized  one  of  them  as  belonging  to  the  Karl  Massensik  family.  Mr 
 Massensik  had  been
his  sixth-grade  teacher,  a  real  pooch.  As  the  house  went  over  the  
edge  and  down  the  slope,
Andrew  realized  he  could  still  see  a  candle  burning  brightly  in  one  
window,  and  he  wondered
briefly  if  he  might  be  mentally  highsiding  it,  if  you  could  dig  the 
 concept.  There  was  an
explosion  from  the  Barrens  and  a  brief  gout  of  yellow  flame  as  
someone's  Coleman  gas
lantern  ignited  oil  pouring  out  of  a  ruptured  fuel-tank. Andrew stared 
at the far side of Kansas
Street,  where  until  just  forty  seconds  ago  there  had  been  a  neat  
line  of  middle-class houses.
They  were  Gone  City  now,  and  you  better  believe  it,  sweet  thing.  In 
 their  places  were  ten
cellar-holes  that  looked  like  swimming-pools.  Andrew  wanted  to  advance  
the  opinion  that
this  was  far  fucking  out,  but  he  couldn't  yell  anymore.  Seemed  like  
his  yeller  was  busted.  His
diaphragm  felt  weak  and  useless.  He  heard  a  series  of  crunching  
thuds,  the  sound  of a giant
with  his  shoes  full  of  Ritz  crackers  marching  down  a  flight  of  
stairs.  It  was  the  Standpipe
rolling  down  the  hill,  a  huge  white  cylinder  still  spouting  the  last 
 of  its  water  supply,  the  thick
cables  that  had  helped  to  hold  it  together  flying  into the air and 
then cracking down again like
steel   bullwhips,   digging   runnels   in   the   soft   earth   that   
immediately   filled   up   with   rushing
rainwater.  As  Andrew  watched,  with  his  chin  resting  somewhere  between  
his  collarbones,  the
Standpipe,  horizontal  now,  better  than  a  hundred  and  twenty-five  feet  
long,  flew  out  into  the
air.  For  a  moment  it  seemed  frozen  there,  a  surreal  image  straight  
out  of  rubber-walled  strait-
jacketed   toodle-oo   land,   rainwater   sparkling   on   its   shattered   
sides,   its   windows   broken,
casements  hanging,  the  flashing  light  on  top,  meant  as  a  warning  for 
 low-flying  light  planes,


still  flashing,  and  then  it  fell  into  the  street  with  a  final  
rending  crash.  Kansas  Street  had
channelled  a  lot  of  the  water,  and  now  it  began  to  rush  toward  
downtown  by way of Up-Mile
Hill.  There   used   to   be   houses   over   there,  Andrew  Keene  thought, 
 and  suddenly  all  the
strength  ran  out  of  his  legs.  He  sat  down  heavily  —  kersplash. He 
stared at the broken stone
foundation  on  which  the  Standpipe  had  stood  for  his  whole  life.  He  
wondered  if  anyone
would ever believe him. He wondered if he believed it himself.

2

The Kill / 10:02 A.M., May31st, 1985

Bill  and  Richie  saw  It  turn  toward  them,  Its  mandibles  opening  and  
closing, Its one good eye
glaring  down  at  them,  and  Bill  realized  It  gave  off  Its  own  source  
of  illumination,  like  some
grisly  lightning-bug.  But  the  light  was  flickering  and  uncertain;  It  
was  badly  hurt.  Its  thoughts
buzzed and racketed

(let me go! let me go and you can have everything you've ever wanted  — money, 
fame,
fortune, power — I can give you these things)

in his head.

Bill  moved  forward  empty-handed,  his  eyes  fixed  on  Its  single  red  
one.  He  felt  the  power
growing   inside   him,   investing   him,   knotting   his   arms   into   
cords,   filling   each   clenched   fist
with its own force. Richie walked beside him, his lips pulled back over his 
teeth.

(I can give you your wife back — I can do it, only I — she'll remember nothing 
as the seven
of you remembered nothing)

They  were  close,  very  close  now.  Bill  could  smell  Its  stinking  aroma 
 and  realized  with
sudden  horror  that  it  was  the  smell  of  the  Barrens,  the  smell  they  
had  taken  for  the  smell  of
sewers and polluted streams and the burning dump . . . but had they ever really 
believed those
were  all  it  had  been?  It  was  the  smell  of  It,  and  perhaps  it  had  
been  strongest  in  the  Barrens
but it had hung over all Derry like a cloud and people just didn't smell it, 
the way zoo-keepers
don't  smell  their  charges  after  awhile,  or  even  wonder  why  the  
visitors  wrinkle  their  noses
when they come in.

'Us  two,'  he  muttered  to  Richie,  and  Richie  nodded  without  taking  
his  eyes  off  the  Spider,
which  now  shrank  back  from  them,  Its  abominable  spiny  legs  
Glittering,  brought  to  bay  at
last.

(I  can't  give  you  eternal  life  but  I  can touch you and you will live 
long long lives  — two
hundred years, three hundred, perhaps five hundred — I can make you gods of the 
Earth  — if
you let me go if you let me go if you let me — )

'Bill?' Richie asked hoarsely.

With  a  scream  building  in  him,  building  up  and  up  and  up,  Bill  
charged.  Richie  ran  with
him  stride  for  stride.  They  struck  together  with  their  right  fists,  
but  Bill  understood  it  was  not
really  their  fists  they  were  striking  with  at  all;  it  was  their  
combined  force,  augmented  by   the
force  of  that  Other;  it  was  the  force  of  memory  and  desire;  above  
all  else,  it  was  the  force  of
love and unforgotten childhood like one big wheel.

The  Spider's  shriek  filled  Bill's  head,  seeming  to  splinter  his  
brains.  He  felt  his  fist  plunge
deep  into  writhing  wetness.  His  arm  followed  it  in  up  to  the  
shoulder.  He  pulled  it  back,
dripping with the Spider's black blood. Ichor poured from the hole he had made.

He  saw  Richie  standing  almost  beneath  Its  bloated  body,  covered  with  
Its  darkly  sparkling
blood, standing in the classic boxer's stance, his dripping fists pumping.

The  Spider  lashed  at  them  with  Its  legs.  Bill  felt  one  of  them  rip 
 down  his  side,  parting  his
shirt,  parting  skin.  Its  stinger  pumped  uselessly  against  the  floor.  
Its  screams  were  clarion-


bells  in  his  head.  It  lunged  clumsily  forward,  trying  to  bite  him,  
and  instead  of  retreating  Bill
drove  forward,  using  not  just  his  fist  now  but  his  whole  body,  
making  himself  into  a  torpedo.
He  ran  into  Its  gut  like  a  sprinting  fullback  who  lowers  his  
shoulders  and  simply  drives
straight ahead.

For  a  moment  he  felt  Its  stinking  flesh  simply  give,  as  if  it  
would  rebound  and  send  him
flying.  With  an  inarticulate  scream  he  drove  harder,  pushing  forward  
and  upward  with  his
legs,  digging  at  It  with  his  hands.  And  he  broke  through;  was  
inundated  with  Its  hot  fluids.
They ran across his face, in his ears. He snuffled them up his nose in thin 
squirming streams.

He  was  in  the  black  again,  up  to  his  shoulders  inside  Its  
convulsing  body.  And  in  his

clogged  ears  he  could  hear  a  sound  like  the  steady  
whack-WHACK-whack-WHACK of a big
bass  drum,  the  one  that  leads  the  parade  when  the  circus  comes  to  
town  with  its  complement
of freaks and strutting capering clowns.

The sound of Its heart.

He  heard  Richie  scream  in  sudden  pain,  a  sound  that  rose  into  a  
quick,  gasping  moan  and
was  cut  off.  Bill  suddenly  thrust  both  fisted  hands  forward.  He  was  
choking,  strangling  in  Its
pulsing bag of guts and waters.

Whack-WHACK-whack-WHACK —

He  plunged  his  hands  into  It,  ripping,  tearing,  parting,  seeking  the  
source  of  the  sound;
rupturing  organs,  his  slimed  fingers  opening  and  closing,  his  locked  
chest  seeming  to  swell
from lack of air.

Whack-WHACK-whack-WHACK —

And  suddenly  it  was  in  his  hands,  a  great  living  thing  that  pumped  
and  pulsed  against  his
palms, pushing them back and forth.

NONONONONONONO)

Yes!  Bill  cried,  choking,  drowning.  Yes!  Try  this,  you  bitch!  TRY  
THIS  ONE  OUT!  DO
YOU LIKE IT? DO YOU LOVE IT? DO YOU?

He  laced  his  ifngers  together  over  the  pulsing  narthex  of  Its  heart, 
 palms  spread  apart  in  an

inverted V — and brought them together with all the force he could muster.

There  was  one  final  shriek  of  pain  and  fear  as  Its  heart  exploded  
between  his  hands,
running out between his fingers in jittering strings.

Whack-WHACK-whack-WHA

The  scream,  fading,  dwindling.  Bill  felt  Its  body  clench  around  him  
suddenly,  like  a  fist  in
a  slick  glove.  Then  everything  loosened.  He  became  aware  that  Its  
body  was  tilting,  slipping
slowly  off  to  one  side.  At  the  same  time  he  began  pulling  back,  
his  consciousness  leaving
him.

The  Spider  collapsed  on  Its  side,  a  huge  bundle  of  steaming  alien  
meat,  Its  legs  still
quivering   and   jerking,   caressing   the   sides   of   the   tunnel   and  
 scraping  across  the  floor  in
random scrawls.

Bill  staggered  away,  breathing  in  whooping  gasps,  spitting  in  an  
effort  to  clear  his  mouth
of Its horrible taste. He tripped over his own feet and fell to his knees.

And  clearly,  he  heard  the  Voice  of  the  Other;  the  Turtle  might  be  
dead,  but  whatever  had
invested it was not.

'Son, you did real good.'

Then  it  was  gone.  The  power  went  with  it.  He  felt  weak,  revulsed,  
half-insane. He looked
over   his   shoulder   and   saw   the   dying   black   nightmare   of   the  
 Spider,  still   jerking   and
quivering.

'Richie!'    He    cried    out    in    a    hoarse,    breaking    voice.    
'Richie,    where    are    you
man?'

No answer.


The  light  was  gone  now.  It  had  died  with  the  Spider.  He  fumbled  in 
 the  pocket  of  his
matted  shirt  for  the  last  book  of  matches.  They  were  there,  but  
they  wouldn't  light;  the  heads
were soaked with blood.

'Richie!'  he  screamed  again,  beginning  to  weep  now.  He  began  to  
crawl  forward,  first  one
hand  and  then  the  other  groping  in  the  dark.  At  last  one  of  them  
struck  something  which
yielded  limply  to  his  touch.  His  hands  flew  over  it  .  .  .  and  
stopped  as  they  touched  Richie's
face.

'Richie! Richie!'

Still  no  answer.  Struggling  in  the  dark,  Bill  got  one  arm  under  
Richie's  back  and  the  other
under  his  knees.  He  wobbled  to  his  feet  and  began  to  stumble  back  
the  way  they  had  come
with Richie in his arms.

3

Derry / 10:00 - 10:15 A.M.

At   10:00   the   steady   vibration   which   had   been   running   through  
 Derry's   downtown   streets
increased  to  a  rumbling  roar.  The  Derry  News  would  la ter  write  that 
 the  supports  of  the
Canal's  underground  portion,  weakened  by  the  savage  assault  of  what  
amounted  to  a  flash
flood,  simply  collapsed.  There  were,  however,  people  who  disagreed  
with  that  view.  'I  was
there,  I  know,'  Harold  Gardener  later  told   his  wife.  'It  wasn't  
just  that  the  Canal's  supports
collapsed. It was an earthquake, that's what it was. It was a fucking 
earthquake.'

Either  way,  the  results  were  the  same.  As  the  rumbling  built  
steadily  up  and  up,  windows
began  to  shatter,  plaster  ceilings  began  to  fall,  and  the  inhuman  
cry  of  twisting  beams  and
foundations  swelled  into  a  frightening  chorus.  Cracks  raced  up  the  
bullet-pocked brick facade
of  Machen's  like  grasping  hands.  The  cables  holding  the  marquee  of  
the  Aladdin  Theater  out
over  the  street  snapped  and  the  marquee  came  crashing  down.  Richard's 
 Alley,  which  ran
behind  the  Center  Street  Drug,  suddenly  filled  up  with  an  avalanche  
of  yellow  brick  as  the
Brian  X  Dowd  Professional  Building,  erected  in  1952,  came  crashing  
down.  A  huge  screen of
jaundice-colored dust rose in the air and was snatched away like a veil.

At  the  same  time  the  statue  of  Paul  Bunyan  in  front  of  the  City  
Center  exploded.  It  was  as
if  that  long-ago  art  teacher's  threat  to  blow  it  up  had  finally  
proved  to  be  dead  serious after
all.  The  bearded  grinning  head  rose  straight  up  in  the  air.  One  leg 
 kicked  forward,  the  other
back,   as   if   Paul   had   attempted   some   sort   of   a   split   so   
enthusiastic   it   had   resulted   in
dismemberment.  The  statue's  midsection  blew  out  in  a  cloud  of  
shrapnel  and  the  head  of  the
plastic  axe  rose  into  the  rainy  sky,  disappeared,  and  then  came  down 
 again,  twirling  end  over
end. It sheared through the roof of the Kissing Bridge, and then its floor.

And then, at 10:02 A.M ., downtown Derry simply collapsed.

Most  of  the  water  from  the  ruptured  Standpipe  had  crossed  Kansas  
Street  and  ended  up  in
the  Barrens,  but  tons  of  it  rushed  down  into  the  business  district  
by  way  of  Up-Mile  Hill.
Perhaps  that  was  the  straw  that  broke  the  camel's  back  .  .  .  or  
perhaps, as Harold Gardener
told  his  wife,  there  really was  an  earthquake.  Cracks  raced  across  
the  surface  of  Main  Street.
They were narrow at first . . . and then they began to gape like hungry mouths 
and the sound
of  the  Canal  floated  up,  not  muffled  now  but  frighteningly  loud.  
Everything  began  to  shake.
The  neon  sign  proclaiming  OUT-LET MOCCASINS   in  front  of  Shorty  
Squires's  souvenir  shop  hit
the  street  and  shorted  out  in  three  feet  of  water.  A  moment  or  two 
 later,  Shorty's  building,
which  stood  next  to  Mr  Paperback, began to  descend.  Buddy  Angstrom  was 
 the  first  to  see
this  phenomenon.  He  elbowed  Alfred  Zitner,  who  looked,  gaped,  and  
then  elbowed  Harold
Gardener.  Within  a  space  of  seconds  the  sandbagging  operation  stopped. 
 The  men  lining  both


sides  of  the  Canal  only  stood  and  stared  toward  downtown  in  the  
pouring  rain,  their  faces
stamped   with   identical   expressions   of   horrified   wonder.   Squires's 
  Souvenirs   and   Sundries
appeared to have been built on some huge elevator which was now on the way 
down. It sank
into  the  apparently  solid  concrete  with  ponderous  stately  dignity.  
When  it  came  to  a  stop,  you
could have dropped to your hands and knees on the flooded sidewalk and entered 
through one
of  the  third-floor  windows.  Water  sprayed  up  all  around  the  building, 
 and  a  moment  later
Shorty   himself   appeared   on   the   roof,   waving   his   arms   madly   
for   rescue.   Then   he   was
obliterated  as  the  office-building  next  door,  the  one  which  housed  Mr 
 Paperback  at  ground
level,  also  sank  into  the  ground.  Unfortunately,  this  one  did  not  go 
straight down as Shorty's
building  had  done;  the  Mr  Paperback  building  developed  a  marked  lean  
(for  a  moment,  in
fact,  it  bore  a  strong  resemblance  to  that  fucked-up  tower  in  Pisa,  
the  one  on  the  macaroni
boxes).  As  it  tilted,  bricks  began  to  shower  from  its  top  and  
sides.  Shorty  was  struck  by
several. Harold Gardener saw him reel backward, hands to his head . . . and 
then the top three
floors  of  the  Mr  Paperback  building  slid  off  as  neatly  as  pancakes  
from  the  top  of  a  stack.
Shorty  disappeared.  Someone  on  the  sandbag  line  screamed,  and  then  
everything  was  lost  in
the  grinding  roar  of  destruction.  Men  were  knocked  off  their  feet  or 
 sent  wobbling  and
staggering  back  from  the  Canal.  Harold  Gardener  saw  the  buildings  
which  faced  each  other
across  Main  Street lean  forward,  like  ladies  kibbitzing  over  a  
card-game,  their  heads  almost
touching.  The  street  itself  was  sinking,  cracking,  breaking  up.  Water  
splashed  and  sprayed.
And  then,  one  after  another,  buildings  on  both  sides  of  the  street  
simply  swayed  past  their
centers  of  gravity  and  crashed  into  the  street   —  the  Northeast  
Bank,  The  Shoeboat,  Alvey's
Smokes  'n  Jokes,  Bailley's  Lunch,  Bandler's  Record  and  Music  Barn.  
Except  that  by  then
there  was  really  no  street  for  them  to  crash  into.  The  street  had  
fallen  into  the  Canal,
stretching  like  taffy  at  first  and  then  breaking  up  into  bobbing  
chunks  of  asphalt.  Harold  saw
the   traffic-island  at  the  three-street  intersection  suddenly  drop  out  
of  sight,  and  as  water
geysered up, he suddenly understood what was going to happen.

'Gotta  get  out  of  here!'   he  screamed  at  Al  Zitner.  'It's  gonna  
backwater!  Al!  Its  gonna
backwater!'

Al Zitner gave no sign that he had heard. His was the face of a sleepwalker, or 
perhaps of a

man   who   has   been   deeply   hypnotized.   He   stood   in   his   soaked  
 red-and-blue-checked
sportcoat,  in  his  open-collared  Lacoste  shirt  with  the  little  
alligator  on  the  left  boob,  in  his
blue  socks  with  the  crossed  white  golf-clubs knitted into their sides, in 
his brown L. L. Bean's
boat  shoes  with  the  rubber  soles.  He  was  watching  perhaps  a  million  
dollars  of  his  own
personal  investments  sinking  into  the  street,  three  or  four  millions  
of  his  friends'  investments

—  the  guys  he  played  poker  with,  the  guys  he  golfed  with,  the  guys 
 he  skied  with  at  his  time-
sharing  condo  in  Rangely.  Suddenly  his  home  town,  Derry,   Maine,  for 
Christ's sake, looked
bizarrely  like  that  fucked-up  city  where  the  wogs  pushed  people  
around  in  those  long  skinny
canoes.  Water  roiled  and  boiled  between  the  buildings  that  were  still 
 standing.  Canal Street
ended  in  a  jagged  black  diving  board  over  the  edge  of  a  churning  
lake.  It  was  really  no
wonder   Zitner   hadn't   heard   Harold.   Others,   however,   had   come   
to   the   same   conclusion
Gardener   had   come   to  —  you  couldn't  drop  that  much  shit  into  a  
raging  body  of  water
without  causing  a  lot  of  trouble.  Some  dropped  the  sandbags  they  had 
 been  holding  and  took
to  their  heels.  Harold  Gardener  was  one  of  these,  and  so  he  lived.  
Others  were  not  so  lucky
and  were  still  somewhere  in  the  general  area  as  the  Canal,  its 
throat now choked with tons of
asphalt,   concrete,   brick,   plaster,   glass,   and   about   four   
million   dollars'   worth   of   assorted
merchandise,   backsurged   and   poured   over   its   concrete   sleeve,   
carrying   away   men   and
sandbags  impartially.  Harold  kept  thinking  it  meant  to  have  him;  no  
matter  how  fast  he  ran
the  water  kept  gaming.  He  finally  escaped  by  clawing  his  way  up  a  
steep  embankment
covered  with  shrubbery.  He  looked  back  once  and  saw  a  man  he  
believed  to  be  Roger
Lernerd,  the  head  loan  officer  at  Harold's  credit  union, trying to 
start his car in the parking-lot


of  the  Canal  Mini-Mall.  Even  over  the  roar  of  the  water  and  the  
bellowing  wind,  Harold
could  hear  the  K-car's  little  sewing-machine  engine  cranking  and  
cranking  and  cranking  as
smooth  black  water  ran  rocker-panel  high  on  both  sides  of  it.  Then,  
with  a  deep  thundering
cry,  the  Kenduskeag  poured  out  of  its  banks  and  swept  both  the  
Canal  Mini-Mall and Roger
Lernerd's  bright  red  K-car  away.  Harold  began  climbing  again,  grabbing 
 onto  branches,  roots,
anything  that  looked  solid  enough  to  take  his  weight.  Higher  ground,  
that  was  the  ticket.  As
Andrew  Keene  might  have  said,  Harold  Gardener  was  really  into  the  
concept  of  higher
ground  that  morning.  Behind  him  he  could  hear  downtown  Derry  
continuing  to  collapse.  The
sound was like artillery fire.

4

Bill

'Beverly!'  he  shouted.  His  back  and  arms  were  one  solid  throbbing  
ache.  Richie  now  seemed
to  weigh  at  least  five  hundred  pounds.  Put him down, then,  his mind 
whispered.  He's dead,
you know damn well he is, so why don't you just put him down?

But he wouldn't, couldn't, do that.
'Beverly!' he shouted again. 'Ben! Anyone!'

He thought:  This  is  where  It  threw  me  — and Richie  —  except  It  threw 
 us  farther  — so

much farther. What was that like? I'm losing it, forgetting . . .

'Bill?' It was Ben's voice, shaky and exhausted, somewhere fairly close. 'Where 
are you?'
'Over here, man. I've got Richie. He got . . . he's hurt.'

'Keep talking.' Ben was closer now. 'Keep talking, Bill.'

'We  killed  It,'  Bill  said,  walking  toward  where  Ben's  voice  had  come 
 from.  'We  killed  the
bitch. And if Richie's dead — '

'Dead?'  Ben  called,  alarmed.  He  was  very  close  now  .  .  .  and  then  
his  hand  groped  out  of

the dark and pawed lightly at Bill's nose. 'What do you mean, dead?'

'I . . . he . . . ' They were supporting Richie together now. 'I can't see 
him,' Bill said. 'That's
the thing. I cuh-cuh-han't suh-suh-see him!'

'Richie!' Ben shouted, and shook him.  'Richie, come on! Come on, goddammit!'  
Ben's voice
was blurring now, becoming shaky. 'RICHIE WILL YOU WAKE THE FUCK UP?'

And  in  the  dark,  Richie  said  in  a  sleepy,  irritable,  
just-coming-out-of-it  voice:  'All  rye,
Haystack. All rye. We doan need no stinkin batches . . . '

'Richie!' Bill screamed. 'Richie, are you all right?'

'Bitch  threw  me,'  Richie  muttered  in  that  same  tired,  
just-coming-out-of-sleep  voice.  'I  hit
something hard. That's all . . . all I remember. Where's Bevvie?'

'Back this way,' Ben said. Quickly, he told them about the eggs. 'I stamped 
over a hundred.

I think I got all of them.'

'I  pray  to  God  you  did,'  Richie  said.  He  was  starting  to  sound  
better.  'Put  me  down,  Big
Bill. I can walk . . . Is the water louder?'

'Yes,' Bill said. The three of them were holding hands in the dark. 'How's your 
head?'

'Hurts like hell. What happened after I got knocked out?'
Bill told them as much as he could bring himself to tell.
'And It's dead,' Richie marvelled. 'Are you sure, Bill?'
'Yes,' Bill said. 'This time I'm really shuh-hure.'

'Thank God,' Richie said. 'Hold onto me, Bill, I gotta barf.'

Bill  did,  and  when  Richie  was  done  they  walked  on.  Every  now  and  
then  his  foot  struck
something  brittle  that  rolled  off  into  the  darkness.  Parts  of  the  
Spider's  eggs  that  Ben  had


tromped  to  pieces,  he  supposed,  and  shivered.  It  was  good  to  know  
they  were  going  in  the
right direction, but he was still glad he couldn't see the remains.

'Beverly!' Ben shouted. 'Beverly!'
'Here — '

Her  cry  was  faint,  almost  lost  in  the   steady  rumble  of  the  water.  
They  moved  forward  in
the dark, calling to her steadily, zeroing in.

When  they  finally  reached  her,  Bill  asked  if  she  had  any  matches  
left.  She  put  half  a  pack
in  his  hand.  He  lit  one  and  saw  their  faces  spring  into  ghostly  
being  —  Ben  with  his  arm
around  Richie,  who  was  standing  slumped,  blood  running  from  his  right 
 temple,  Beverly  with
Eddie's  head  in  her  lap.  Then  he  turned  the  other  way.  Audra  was  
lying  crumpled  on  the
flagstones, her legs asprawl, her head turned away. The webbing had mostly 
melted off her.

The  match  burned  his  fingers  and  he  let  it  drop.  In  the  darkness  
he  misjudged  the  distance,
tripped over her, and nearly went sprawling.

'Audra! Audra, can you h-h-hear m-me?'

He  got  an  arm  under  her  back  and sat her up. He slipped a hand under the 
sheaf of her hair
and pressed his fingers against the side of her neck. Her pulse was there: a 
slow, steady beat.

He   lit   another   match,   and   as   it   flared   he   saw   her   pupils  
 contract.   But   that   was   an
involuntary  function;  the  fix  of  her  gaze  did  not  change,  even  when  
he  brought  the  match
close  enough  to  her  face  to  redden  her  skin.  She  was  alive,  but  
unresponsive.  Hell,  it  was
worse than that and he knew it. She was catatonic.

The second match burned his finge rs. He shook it out.

'Bill, I don't like the sound of that water,' Ben said. 'I think we ought to 
get out of here.'
'How will we do it without Eddie?' Richie murmured.

'We can do it,' Bev said. 'Bill, Ben's right. We have to get out.'

'I'm taking her.'

'Of course. But we ought to go now.'
'Which way?'

'You'll know,' Beverly said softly. 'You killed It. You'll know, Bill.'

He  picked  Audra  up  as  he  had  picked  Richie  up  and  went  back  to  
the  others.  The  feel  of
her in his arms was disquieting, creepy; she was like a breathing waxwork.

'Which way, Bill?' Ben asked.

'Id-d-don't — '

(you'll know, you killed It and you'll know)

'Well,  c-come  on,'  Bill  said.  'Let's  see  if  we  can't  find  out.  
Beverly,  gruh-gruh-hab  these.'
He handed her the matches.

'What about Eddie?' she asked. 'We have to take him out.'

'How c-can w-we?' Bill asked. 'It's . . . B-Beverly, the pluh-hace is f-falling 
apart.'
'We gotta get him out of here, man,' Richie said. 'Come on, Ben.'

Between   them   they   managed   to   hoist   up   Eddie's   body.   Beverly   
lit   them   back   to   the

fairytale  door.  Bill  took  Audra  through  it,  holding  her  up  from  the  
floor  as  best  he  could.
Richie and Ben carried Eddie through.

'Put him down,' Beverly said. 'He can stay here.'

'It's too dark,' Richie sobbed. 'You know . . . it's too dark. Eds . . . he . . 
. '

'No, it's okay,' Ben said. 'Maybe this is where he's supposed to be. I think 
maybe it is.'

They  put  him  down,  and  Richie  kissed  Eddie's  cheek.  Then  he  looked  
blindly  up  at  Ben.
'You sure?'

'Yeah. Come on, Richie.'

Richie got up and turned toward the door.  'Fuck you, Bitch!'  he cried 
suddenly, and kicked
the door shut with his foot. It made a solid chukking sound as it closed and 
latched.

'Why'd you do that?' Beverly asked.


'I don't know,' Richie said, but he knew well enough. He looked back over his 
shoulder just
as the match Beverly was holding went out.

'Bill — the mark on the door?'
'What about it?' Bill panted.
Richie said: 'It's gone.'

5

Derry / 10:30 A.M.

The  glass  corridor  connecting  the  adult  library  to  the  Children's  
Library  suddenly  exploded  in
a  single  brilliant  flare  of  light.  Glass  flew  out  in  an  umbrella  
shape,  whickering  through  the
straining  whipping  trees  which  dotted  the  library  grounds.  Someone  
could  have  been  severely
hurt      or  even  killed  by  such  a  deadly  fusillade,  but  there  was  
no  one  there,  either  inside  or  out.
The  library  had  not  been  opened  that  day  at  all.  The  tunnel  which  
had  so  fascinated  Ben
Hanscom  as  a  boy  would  never  be  replaced;  there  had  been  so  much  
costly  destruction  in
Derry  that  it  seemed  simpler  to  leave  the  two  libraries  as  separate  
unconnected  buildings.  In
time,  no  one  on  the  Derry  City  Council  could  even  remember  what  
that  glass  umbilicus had
been  for.  Perhaps  only  Ben  himself  could  really  have  told  them  how  
it  was  to  stand  outside  In
the  still  cold  of  a  January  night,  your  nose  running,  the  tips  of  
your  fingers  numb  inside  your
mittens,  watching  the  people  pass  back  and  forth  inside,  walking  
through  winter  with  their
coats  off  and  surrounded  by  light.  He  could  have  told  them  .  but  
maybe  it  wasn't  the  sort  of
thing  you  could  have  gotten  up  and  testified  about  at  a  City  
Council  meeting  —  how  you
stood  out  in  the  cold  dark  and  learned  to love the light. All of that's 
as may be; the facts were
just  these:  the  glass  corridor  blew  up  for  no  apparent  reason,  no  
one  was  hurt  (which  was  a
blessing,  since  the  final  toll  taken  by  that  morning's  storm —  in  
human  terms,  at  least  — was
sixty-seven  killed  and  better  than  three  hundred  and  twenty  injured),  
and  it  was  never  rebuilt.
After   May  31st  of  1985,  if  you  wanted  to  get  from  the  Children's  
Library  to  the  adult  library,
you had to walk outside to do it. And if it was cold, or raining, or snowing,  
you had to put on
your coat.

6

Out / 10:54 A.M., May 31st, 1985

'Wait,' Bill gasped. 'Give me a chance . . . rest.'

'Let  me  help  you  with  her,'  Richie  said  again.  They  had  left  Eddie  
back  in  the  Spider's  lair,
and  that  was  something  none  of  them  wanted  to  talk  about.  But  Eddie 
 was  dead  and  Audra
was still alive — at least, technically.

'I'll do it,' Bill said between choked gasps for air.

'Bullshit. You'll give yourself a fucking heart attack. Let me help you, Big 
Bill.'
'How's your h-h-head?'

'Hurts,' Richie said. 'Don't change the subject.'

Reluctantly,  Bill  let  Richie  take  her.  It  could  have  been  worse;  
Audra  was  a  tall  girl  whose
normal  weight  was  one  hundred  and  forty  pounds.  But  the  part  she'd  
been  scheduled  to  play
in Attic  Room  was  that  of  a  young  woman  being  held  hostage  by  a  
borderline  psychotic  who
fancied  himself  a  political  terrorist.  Because  Freddie  Firestone  had  
wanted  to  shoot  all  of  the
attic  sequences  first,  Audra  had  gone  on  a  strict  poultry  —  cottage 
-cheese  —  tuna-fish diet


and  lost  twenty  pounds.  Still,  after  stumble -staggering  along  with  
her  in  the  dark  for  a  quarter
of  a  mile  (or  a  half,  or  three-quarters  of  a  mile,  or  who  knew),  
that  one  hundred  and  twenty
felt more like two hundred.

'Th-Thanks, m-m-man,' he said.

'Don't mention it. Your turn next, Haystack.'

'Beep-beep, Richie,' Ben said, and Bill grinned in spite of himself. It was a 
tired grin, and it
didn't last long, but a little was better than none.

'Which  way,  Bill?'  Beverly  asked.  'That  water  sounds  louder  than  
ever.  I  don't  really  fancy
drowning down here.'

'Straight ahead, then left,' Bill said. 'Maybe we better try to go a little 
faster.'

They  went  on  for  half  an  hour,  Bill  calling  the  lefts  and  rights.  
The  sound  of  the  water
continued  to  swell  until  it  seemed  to  surround  them,  a  scary  Dolby 
stereo  effect  in  the  dark.
Bill  felt  his  way  around  a  corner,  one  hand  trailing  over  damp  
brick,  and  suddenly  water  was
running over his shoes. The current was shallow and fast.

'Give me  Audra,'  he  said  to  Ben,  who  was  panting  loudly.  'Upstream  
now.'  Ben  passed  her
carefully  back  to  Bill,  who  managed  to  sling  her  over  his  shoulder  
ma  fireman's  carry.  If  she'd
only protest . . . move . . . do something. 'How's matches, Bev?'

'Not many. Half a dozen, maybe. Bill . . . do you know where you're going?'
'I think I d-d-do,' he said. 'Come on.'

They  followed  him  around  the  corner.  The  water  foamed  about  Bill's  
ankles,  then  it  was  up
to  his  shins,  and  then  it  was  thigh-deep.  The  thunder  of  the  water  
had  deepened  to  a  steady
bass  roar.  The  tunnel  they  were  in  was  shaking  steadily.  For  awhile  
Bill  thought  the  current
was  going  to  become  too  strong  to  walk  against,  but  then  they  
passed  a  feeder-pipe that was
pouring  a  huge  jet  of  water ni to their tunnel  —  he  marvelled  at  the  
white-water force of it  —
and the current slacked off somewhat, although the water continued to deepen. 
It —

I saw the water coming out of that feeder-pipe! Saw it!

'H-H-Hey!' he shouted. 'Can y-y-you guys see a-any thing?'

'It's  been  getting  lighter  for  the  last  fifteen  minutes  or  so!'  
Beverly  shouted  back.  'Where
are we, Bill? Do you know?'

I thought I did, Bill almost said. 'No! Come on!'

He   had   believed   they   must   be   approaching   the   
concrete-channelled   section   of   the
Kenduskeag that was called the Canal . . . the part that went under downtown 
and came out in
Bassey  Park.  But  there  was  light  down  here,   light,  and  surely  there 
 could  be  no  light  in  the
Canal under the city. But it brightened steadily just the same.

Bill  was  beginning  to  have  serious  problems  with  Audra.  It  wasn't  
the  current  —  that had
slackened  —  it  was  the  depth.  Pretty soon I'll be floating her,  he 
thought. He could see Ben
on  his  left  and  Beverly  on  his  right;  by  turning  his  head  slightly, 
 he  could  see  Richie  behind
Ben.  The  footing  was  getting  decidedly  odd.  The  bottom  of  the  tunnel 
 was  now  heaped  and
mounded with detritus  —  bricks,  it  felt  like.  And  up  ahead,  something  
was  sticking  out  of  the
water like, the prow of a ship that is in the process of sinking.

Ben  floundered  toward  it,  shivering  in  the  cold  water.  A  soggy  cigar 
 box  floated  into  his
face. He pushed it aside and grabbed at the thing sticking out of the water. 
His eyes widened.
It  appeared  to  be  a  large  sign.  He  was  able  to  read  the  letters  
AL, and below that,  FUT.  And
suddenly he knew.

'Bill! Richie! Bev!' He was laughing with astonishment.
'What is it, Ben?' Beverly shouted.

Grabbing it with both hands, Ben rocked it back. There was a grating sound as 
one side of
the  sign  scraped  along  the  wall  of  the  tunnel.  Now  they  could  read: 
 ALADDI,  and, below that,
BACK TO THE FUTURE.

'It's the marquee for the Aladdin,' Richie said. 'How — '


'The  street  caved  in,'  Bill  whispered.  His  eyes  were  widening.  He  
stared  up  the  tunnel.  The
light was brighter still up ahead.

'What, Bill?'

'What the fuck happened?

'Bill? Bill? What — '

'All  these  drains!'  Bill  said  wildly.  'All  these  old  drains!  There's  
been  another  flood!  And  I
think this time — '

He  began  to  flounder  ahead  again,  holding  Audra  up.  Ben,  Bev,  and  
Richie  fell  in  behind
him.  Five  minutes  later  Bill  looked  up  and  saw  blue  sky.  He  was  
looking  through  a  crack  in
the ceiling of the tunnel, a crack that widened to better than seventy  feet 
across as it ran away
from  where  he  stood.  The  water  was  broken  by  many  islands  and  
archipelagos  up  ahead  —
piles  of  bricks,  the  back  deck  of  a  Plymouth  sedan  with  its  trunk  
sprung  open  and  pouring
water,  a  parking-meter  leaning  against  the  tunnel  wall  at  a  drunken  
slant,  its  red   VIOLATION
flag up.

The  footing  had  become  almost  impossible  now   —  mini-mountains  that  
rose  and  fell  with
no rhyme or reason, inviting a broken ankle. The water ran mildly around their 
armpits.

Mild now,  Bill thought.  But if we'd been here two hours ago, even one, I 
think we might
have gotten the ride of our lives.

'What  the  fuck  is  this,  Big  Bill?'  Richie  asked.  He  was  standing  at 
 Bill's  left  elbow,  his  face

soft with wonder as he looked up at the rip in the roof of the tunnel — except 
it's not the roof
of any tunnel Bill thought. It's Main Street. At least it used to be.

'I   think   most   of   downtown   Derry   is   now   in   the   Canal   and   
being   carried   down   the

Kenduskeag  River.  Pretty  soon  it'll  be  in  the  Penobscot  and  then  it  
will  be  in  the  Atlantic
Ocean  and  good  fucking  riddance.  Can  you  help  me  with  Audra,  Richie? 
 I  don't  think  I  can

— '

'Sure,' Richie said. 'Sure, Bill. No sweat.'

He took Audra from Bill. In this light, Bill could see her better than he 
perhaps  wanted to  -
her  pallor  masked  but  not  hidden  by  the  dirt  and  ordure  that  
smeared  her  forehead  and  caked
her  cheeks.  Her  eyes  were  still  wide  open  .  .  .  wide  open  and  
innocent  of  all  sense.  Her  hair
hung  lank  and  wet.  She  might  as  well  have  been  one  of  those  
inflatable  doilies  they  sold  at
the  Pleasure  Chest  in  New  York  or  along  the  Reeperbahn  in  Hamburg.  
The  only  difference
was  her  slow,  steady  respiration  .  .  .  and  that  might  have  been  a  
clockwork  trick,  no  more
than that.

'How are we going to get up from here?' he asked Richie.

'Get  Ben  to  give  you  ten  fingers,'  Richie  said.  'You  can  yank  Bev  
up,  and  the  two  of  you
can  get  your  wife.  Ben  can  boost  me  and  we'll  get  Ben.  And  after  
that  I'll  show  you  how  to
set up a volleyball tournament for a thousand sorority girls.'

'Beep-beep, Richie.'

'Beep-beep your ass, Big Bill.'

The  tiredness  was  going  through  him  in  steady  waves.  He  caught  
Beverly's  level  gaze  and
held it for a moment. She nodded to him slightly, and he made a smile for her.

'Give me ten fingers, B-B-Ben?'

Ben,  who  also  looked  unutterably  weary,  nodded.  A  deep  scratch  ran  
down  one  cheek.  'I
think I can handle that.'

He  stooped  slightly  and  laced  his  hands  together.  Bill  hiked  one  
foot,  stepped  into  Ben's
hand,  and  jumped  up.  It  wasn't  quite  enough.  Ben  lifted  the  step  he 
 had  made  with  his  hands
and  Bill  grabbed  the  edge  of  the  broken-in  tunnel  roof.  He  yanked  
himself  up.  The  first  thing
he  saw  was  a  white-and-orange  crash  barrier.  The  second  thing  was  a  
crowd  of  milling  men
and  women  beyond  the  barrier.  The  third  was  Freese's  Department  Store 
  —  only  it  had  an
oddly  bulged-out,  foreshortened  look.  It  took  him  a  moment  to  realize 
 that  almost  half  of


Freese's  had  sunk  into  the  street  and  the  Canal  beneath.  The  top  
half  had  slued out over the
street and seemed in danger of toppling over like a pile of badly stacked 
books.

'Look! Look! There's someone in the street!'

A woman was pointing toward the place where Bill's head had poked out of the 
crevasse in
the shattered pavement.

'Praise God, there's someone else!'

She  started  forward,  an  elderly  woman  with  a  kerchief  tied  over  her  
head  peasant-style. A
cop  held  her  back.  'Not  safe  out  there,  Mrs  Nelson.  You  know  it.  
Rest  of  the  street  might  go
any time.'

Mrs   Nelson,  Bill  thought.  I  remember  you.  Your  sister  used  to  sit  
George  and  me
sometimes.  He  raised  his  hand  to  show  her  he  was  all  right,  and  
when  she  raised  her  own
hand in return, he felt a sudden surge of good feelings — and hope.

He  turned  around  and   lay  flat  on  the  sagging  pavement,  trying  to  
distribute  his  weight  as
evenly  as  possible,  the  way  you  were  supposed  to  do  on  thin  ice.  
He  reached  down  for  Bev.
She  grasped  his  wrists  and,  with  what  seemed  to  be  the  last  of  his 
 strength,  he  pulled  her  up.
The  sun,  which  had  disappeared  again,  now  ran  out  from  behind  a  
brace  of  mackerel-scale
clouds  and  gave  them  their  shadows  back.  Beverly  looked  up,  startled, 
 caught  Bill's  eyes,  and
smiled.

'I love you, Bill,' she said. 'And I pray she'll be all right.'

'Thuh-hank  you,  Bevvie,'  he  said,  and  his  kind  smile  made  her  start  
to  cry  a  little.  He
hugged  her  and  the  small  crowd  gathered  behind  the  crash  barrier  
applauded.  A  photographer
from  the  Derry  News  snapped  a  picture.  It  appeared  in  the  June  1st  
edition  of  the  paper,
which was printed in Bangor because of water damage to the  News's  presses. 
The caption was
simple  enough,  and  true  enough  for  Bill  to  cut  the  picture  out  and  
keep  it  tucked  away  in  his
wallet for years to come: SURVIVORS, the caption read. That was all, but that 
was enough.

It was six minutes of eleven in Derry, Maine.

7

Derry / Later the Same Day

The  glass  corridor  between  the  Children's  Library  and  the  adult  
library  had  exploded  at  10:30

A.M.  At  10:33,  the  rain  stopped.  It  didn't  taper  off;  it  stopped  
all  at  once,  as  if  Someone  Up
There  had  flicked  a  toggle  switch.  The  wind  had  already  begun  to  
fall,  and  it  fell  so  rapidly
that  people  stared  at  each  other  with  uneasy,  superstitious  faces.  
The  sound  was  like  the
wind-down of a 747's  engines  after  it  has  been  safely  parked  at  the  
gate.  The  sun  peeked  out
for  the  first  time  at  10:47.  By  midafternoon  the  clouds  had  burned  
away  entirely,  and  the  day
had  come  off  fair  and  hot.  By  3:30  P.M.  the  mercury  in  the  Orange  
Crush  thermometer
outside  the  door  of  Secondhand  Rose,  Secondhand  Clothes  read  
eighty-three  —  the  highest
reading  of  the  young  season.  People  walked  through  the  streets  like  
zombies,  not  talking
much.  Their  expressions  were  remarkably  similar:  a  kind  of  stupid  
wonder  that  would  have
been  funny  if  it  was  not  also  so  frankly  pitiable.  By  evening  
reporters  from  ABC,  CBS,  NBC,
and  CNN  had  arrived  in  Derry,  and  the  network  news  reporters  would  
bring  some  version  of
the  truth  home  to  most  people;  they  would  make  it  real  .  .  .  
although  there  were  those  who
might  have  suggested  that  reality  is  a  highly  untrustworthy  concept,  
something  perhaps  no
more  solid  than  a  piece  of  canvas  stretched  over  an  interlacing  of  
cables  like  the  strands  of  a
spiderweb.  The  following  morning  Bryant  Gumble  and  Willard  Scott  of  
the  Today  show
would  be  in  Derry.  During  the  course  of  the  program,  Gumble  would  
interview  Andrew
Keene. 'Whole Standpipe just crashed over and rolled down the hill,' Andrew 
said. 'It was like


wow.  You  know  what  I  mean?  Like  Steven  Spielberg  eat  your  heart  
out,  you  know?  Hey,  I
always  got  the  idea  looking  at  you  on  TV  that  you  were,  you  know,  
a  lot  bigger.'  Seeing
themselves  and  their  neighbors  on  TV  —  that  would  make  it  real.  It  
would  give  them  a  place
from  which  to  grasp  this  terrible,  ungraspable  thing.  It  had  been  a  
FREAK  STORM .  In the days
following, THE  DEATH-COUNT  would rise in  THE  WAKE  OF  THE  KILLER  STORM.  
It  was,  in  fact,
THE  WORST  SPRING  STORM  IN  MAINE  HISTORY.  All of these headlines, as 
terrible as they were,
were  useful  —  they  helped  to  blunt  the  essential  strangeness  of  what 
 had  happened  .  .  .  or
perhaps  strangeness  was too mild a word.  Insanity might have been better. 
Seeing themselves
on  TV  would  help  make  it  concrete,  less  insane.  But  in  the  hours  
before  the  news  crews
arrived,  there  were  only  the  people  from  Derry,  walking  through  their 
 rubble -strewn,  mud-
slicked  streets  with  expressions  of  stunned  unbelief  on  their  faces.  
Only  the  people  from
Derry,  not  talking  much,  looking  at  things,  occasionally  picking  
things  up  and  then tossing
them  down  again,  trying  to  figure  out  what  had  happened  during  the  
last  seven  or  eight  hours.
Men  stood  on  Kansas  Street,  smoking,  looking  at  houses  lying  upside  
down  in  the  Barrens.
Other  men  and  women  stood  beyond  the  white-and-orange  crash  barriers,  
looking  into  the
black  hole  that  had  been  downtown  until  ten  that  morning.  The  
headline  of  that  Sunday's
paper  read:  WE  WILL  REBUILD ,  vows  DERRY  MAYOR,  and  perhaps  they  
would.  But  in  the
weeks  that  followed,  while  the  City  Council  wrangled  over  how  the  
rebuilding  should  begin,
the  huge  crater  that  had  been  downtown  continued  to  grow  in  an  
unspectacular  but  steady
way.  Four  days  after  the  storm,  the  office  building  of  the  Bangor  
Hydroelectric  Company
collapsed  into  the  hole.  Three  days  after  that,  the  Flying Doghouse, 
which sold the best kraut-
and  chili-dogs  in  eastern  Maine,  fell  in.  Drains  backed  up  
periodically  in  houses,  apartment
buildings, and businesses. It got so bad in the Old Cape that people began to 
leave. June 10th
was  the  first  evening  of  horse-racing  at  Bassey  Park;  the  first  race 
 was  scheduled  for  8:00

P.M. and that seemed to cheer everyone up. But a section of bleachers collapsed 
as the trotters
in  the  first  race  turned  into  the  home  stretch,  and  half  a  dozen  
people  were  hurt.  One  of  them
was  Foxy  Foxworth,  who  had  managed  the  Aladdin  Theater  until  1973.  
Foxy  spent  two
weeks  in  the  hospital,  suffering  from  a  broken  leg  and  a  punctured  
testicle.  When  he  was
released, he decided to go to his sister's in Somersworth, New Hampshire.

He wasn't the only one. Derry was falling apart.

8

They  watched  the  orderly  slam  the  back  doors  of  the  ambulance  and  
go  around  to  the
passenger  seat.  The  ambulance  started  up  the  hill  toward  the  Derry  
Home  Hospital.  Richie
had  flagged  it  down  at  severe  risk of  life  and  limb,  and  had  argued 
 the  irate  driver  to  a  draw
when  the  driver  insisted  he  just  didn't  have  any  more  room.  He  had  
ended  up  stretching
Audra out on the floor.

'Now  what?'  Ben  asked.  There  were  huge  brown  circles  under  his  eyes  
and  a  grimy ring of
dirt around his neck.

'I'm  g-going  back  to  the  Town  House,'  Bill  said.  'G-Gonna  sleep  for  
about  suh-hixteen
hours.'

'I second that,' Richie said. He looked hopefully at Bev. 'Got any cigarettes, 
purty lady?'

'No,' Beverly said. 'I think I'm going to quit again.'
'Sensible enough idea.'

They began to walk slowly up the hill, the four of them side by side.
'It's o-o-over,' Bill said.

Ben nodded. 'We did it. You did it, Big Bill.'


'We all did it,' Beverly said. 'I wish we could have brought Eddie up. I wish 
that more than
anything.'

They  reached  the  corner  of  Upper  Main  and  Point  Street.  A  kid  in  a 
 red  rainslicker  and
green  rubber  boots  was  sailing  a  paper  boat  along  the  brisk  run  of  
water  in  the  gutter.  He
looked  up,  saw  them  looking  at  him,  and  waved  tentatively.  Bill  
thought  it  was  the  boy  with
the skateboard  —  the  one  whose  friend  had  seen  Jaws  in  the  Canal.  
He  smiled  and  stepped
toward the boy.

'It's all right n-n-now,' he said.

The  boy  studied  him  gravely,  and  then  grinned.  The  smile  was  sunny  
and  hopeful.  'Yeah,'
he said. 'I think it is.'

'Bet your a-a-ass.'

The kid laughed.

'You g-gonna be careful on thuh-hat skateboard?'

'Not  really,'  the  kid  said,  and  this  time  Bill  laughed.  He  
restrained an urge to ruffle the kid's
hair — that probably would have been resented — and returned to the others.

'Who was that?' Richie asked.

'A  friend,'  Bill  said.  He  stuffed  his  hands  in  his  pockets.  'Do  you 
 remember  it?  When  we
came out before?'

Beverly nodded. 'Eddie got us back to the Barrens. Only we ended up on the 
other side of

the Kenduskeag somehow. The Old Cape side.'

'You  and  Haystack  pushed  the  lid  off  one  of  those  pumping-stations,'  
Richie  said  to  Bill,
'because you had the most weight.'

'Yeah,' Ben said. 'We did. The sun was out, but it was almost down.'
'Yeah,' Bill said. 'And we were all there.'

'But  nothing  lasts  forever,'  Richie  said.  He  looked  back  down  the  
hill  they  had  just  climbed
and sighed. 'Look at this, for instance.'

He  held  his  hands  out.  The  tiny  scars  in  the  palms  were  gone.  
Beverly  put  her  hands  out;
Ben did the same; Bill added his. All were dirty but unmarked.

'Nothing  lasts  forever,'  Richie  repeated.  He  looked  up  at  Bill,  and  
Bill  saw  tears  cut  slowly

through the dirt on Richie's cheeks.
'Except maybe for love,' Ben said.
'And desire,' Beverly said.

'How about friends?' Bill asked, and smiled. 'What do you think, Trashmouth?'

'Well,'  Richie  said,  smiling  and  rubbing  his  eyes,  'Ah got to thank 
about it, boy; Ah say, Ah
say Ah got to thank about it.'

Bill  put  his  hands  out  and  they  joined  theirs  with  his  and  stood  
there  for  a  moment,  seven
who  had  been  reduced  to  four  but  who  could  still  make  a  circle.  
They  looked  at  each  other.
Ben was crying now too, the tears spilling from his eyes. But he was smiling.

'I  love  you  guys  so  much,'  he  said.  He  squeezed  Bev's  and  Richie's  
hands  tight-tight-tight
for  a  moment,  and  then  dropped  them.  'Now  could  we  see  if  they've  
got  such  a  thing  as
breakfast in this place? And we ought to call Mike. Tell him we're okay.'

'Good  thinnin,  senhorr,'  Richie  said.  'Every  now  an  then  I  theenk  
you  might  turn  out  okay.

Watchoo theenk, Beeg Beel?'

'I theenk you ought to go fuck yourself,' Bill said .

They  walked  into  the  Town  House  on  a  wave  of  laughter,  and  as  Bill 
 pushed  through  the
glass  door,  Beverly  caught  sight  of  something  which  she  never  spoke  
of  but  never  forgot.  For
just  a  moment  she  saw  their  reflections  in  the  glass   —  only there 
were  six, not four, because
Eddie was behind Richie and Stan was behind Bill, that little half-smile on his 
face.


9

Out / Dusk, August 10th, 1958

The sun sits neatly on the horizon, a slightly oblate red ball that throws a 
flat feverish light
over the Barrens. The iron cover on top of one of the pumping-stations rises a 
little, settles,
rises again, and begins to slide.

'P-P-Push it, Buh-Ben, it's bruh-breaking my shoulder —

The cover slides farther, tilts, and falls into the shrubbery that has grown up 
around the
concrete cylinder. Seven children come out one by one and look around, blinking 
owlishly in
silent wonder. They are like children who have never seen daylight before.

'It's so quiet,' Beverly says softly.

The only sounds are the loud rush of water and the somnolent hum of insects. 
The storm is
over but the Kenduskeag is still very high. Closer to town, not far from the 
place where the
river  is  corseted  in  concrete  and  called  a  canal,  it  has  overflowed  
its  banks,  although  the
flooding is by no means serious — a few wet cellars is the worst of it. This 
time.

Stan moves away from them, his face blank and thoughtful. Bill looks around and 
at first
he thinks Stan has seen a small fire on the riverbank — fire is his first 
impression: a red glow
almost too bright to look at. But when Stan picks the fire up in his right hand 
the angle of the
light changes, and Bill sees it's nothing but a Coke bottle, one of the new 
clear ones, which
someone has dropped by the river. He watches as Stan reverses it, holds it by 
the neck, and
brings it down on a shelf of rock jutting out of the bank. The bottle breaks, 
and Bill is aware
they are all watching Stan now as he pokes through the shattered remains of the 
bottle, his
face  sober  and  studious  and  absorbed.  At  last  he  picks  up  a  narrow  
wedge  of  glass.  The
westering sun throws red glints from it, and Bill thinks again: Like a fire.

Stan  looks  up  at  him  and  Bill  suddenly  understands:  it  is  perfectly  
clear  to  him,  and
perfectly right. He steps forward toward Stan with his hands held out, palms 
up. Stan backs
away, into the water. Small black bugs stitch along just above the surface, and 
Bill can see an
iridescent  dragonfly  go  bussing  off  into  the  reeds  along  the  far  
bank  like  a  small  flying
rainbow. A frog begins a steady bass thud, and as Stan takes his left hand and 
draws the edge
of glass down his palm, peeling skin and bringing thin blood, Bill thinks in a 
kind of ecstasy:
There's so much life down here!

'Bill?'

'Sure. Both.'

Stan  cuts  his other hand. There is pain, but not much. A whippoorwill has 
begun to call
somewhere, a cool sound, peaceful. Bill thinks: That whippoorwill is raising 
the moon.

He looks at his hands, both of them bleeding now, and then around him. The 
others are
there — Eddie with his aspirator clutched tightly in one hand; Ben with his big 
belly pushing
palely out through the tattered remains of his shirt; Richie, his face oddly 
naked without his
glasses;  Mike,  silent  and  solemn,  his  normally  full  lips  compressed  
to  a  thin  line.  And
Beverly, her head up, her eyes wide and clear, her hair still somehow lovely in 
spite of the
dirt that mats it.

All of us. All of us are here.

And he sees them, really sees them, for the last time, because in some way he 
understands
that they will never all be together again, the seven of them — not this way. 
No one talks.
Beverly holds out her hands, and after a moment Richie and Ben hold out theirs. 
Mike and
Eddie do the same. Stan cuts them one by one as the sun begins to slip behind 
the horizon,
cooling  that  red  furnace-glow  to  a  dusky  rose-pink. The whippoorwill 
cries again, Bill can
see  the  first  faint  swirls  of  mist  on  the  water,  and  he  feels  as  
if  he  has  become  a  part  of


everything — this is a brief ecstasy which he will no  more talk about than 
Beverly will later
talk about the brief reflection she sees of two dead men who were, as boys, her 
friends.

A  breeze  touches  the  trees  and  bushes,  making  them  sigh,  and  he  
thinks:  This is a lovely
place,  and  I'll  never  forget  it.  It's  lovely,  and  they  are lovely; 
each one of them is gorgeous.
The whippoorwill cries again, sweet and liquid, and for a moment Bill feels at 
one with it, as
if he could sing and then be gone into the dusk — as if he could fly away, 
brave in the air.

He looks at Beverly and she is smiling at him. She closes her eyes and holds 
her hands out
to either side. Bill takes her left; Ben her right. Bill can feel the warmth of 
her blood mixing
with his own. The others join in and they stand in a circle, all of their hands 
now sealed in
that peculiarly intimate way.

Stan is looking at Bill with a kind of urgency; a kind of fear.

'Swuh-Swear to muh-me that you'll c-c-c-come buh-back,' Bill says. 'Swear to me 
that if lh -
Ih-It isn't d-d-dead, you'll cuh-home back.'

'Swear,' Ben said.

'Swear.' Richie.

'Yes — I swear.' Bev.

'Swear it,' Mike Hanlon mutters.

'Yeah. Swear.' Eddie, his voice a thin and reedy whisper.

'I swear too,' Stan whispers, but his voice falters and he looks down as he 
speaks.
'I-I swuh-swuh-swear.'

That was it; that was all. But they stand there for awhile longer, feeling the 
power that is in
their circle, the closed body that they make. The light paints their faces in 
pale fading colors;

the  sun  is  now  gone  and sunset  is  dying.  They  stand  together  in  a  
circle  as  the  darkness
creeps  down  into  the  Barrens,  filling  up  the  paths  they  have  walked  
this  summer,  the
clearings where they have played tag and guns, the secret places along the 
riverbanks where
they  have  sat and  discussed  childhood's  long  questions  or  smoked  
Beverly's  cigarettes  or
where they have merely been silent, watching the passage of the clouds 
reflected in the water.
The eye of the day is closing.

At last Ben drops his hands. He starts to say something, shakes his head, and 
walks away.

Richie follows him, then Beverly and Mike, walking together. No one talks; they 
climb the
embankment to Kansas Street and simply take leave of one another. And when Bill 
thinks it
over  twenty-seven  years  later,  he  realizes that they really never did all 
get together again.
Four of them quite often, sometimes five, and maybe six once or twice. But 
never all seven.

He's the last to go. He stands for a long time with his hands on the rickety 
white fence,
looking  down into the Barrens as, overhead, the first stars seed the summer 
sky. He stands
under the blue and over the black and watches the Barrens fill up with 
darkness.

I never want to play down there again, he thinks suddenly and is amazed to find 
the thought
is not terrible or distressing but tremendously liberating.

He stands there a moment longer and then turns away from the Barrens and starts 
home,

walking along the dark sidewalk with his hands in his pockets, glancing from 
time to time at
the houses of Derry, warmly lit against the night.

After a block or two he begins to walk faster, thinking of supper . . . and a 
block or two

after that, he begins to whistle.


'"The ocean, in these times, is a perfect fleet of ships, and we can hardly fail
to encounter many, in running over. It is merely crossing,' said Mr Micawber
trifling with his eyeglass, 'merely crossing. The distance is quite 
imaginary."'

— Charles Dickens.

David Copperfield


June 4th, 1985

Bill  came  in  about  twenty minutes ago and brought me this book  — Carole 
found it on one of
the  tables  in  the  library  and  gave  it  to  him  when  he  asked  for  
it.  I  thought  Chief  Rademacher
might have taken it, but apparently he didn't want anything to do with it.

Bill's  stutter  is  disappearing  again,  but  the  poor  man  has  aged  four 
 years  in  the  last  four
days.  He  told  me  he  expects  Audra  to  be  discharged  from  Derry  Home  
Hospital  (where  I
myself  yet  tarry)  tomorrow,  only  to  take  a  private  ambulance  north  
to  the  Bangor  Mental
Health   Institute.   Physically   she's   fine   —   minor  cuts  and  bruises 
 that  are  already  healing.
Mentally . . .

'You  raise  her  hand  and  it  stays  up,'  Bill  said.  He  was  sitting  by 
 the  window,  twiddling  a
can  of  diet  soda  between  his  hands.  'It  just  floats  there  until 
someone puts it down again. Her
reflexes  are  there,  but  very  slow.  The  EEG  they  did  shows  a  
severely  repressed  alpha  wave.
She's c-c-catatonic, Mike.'

I said, 'I've got an idea. Maybe not such a good one. If you don't like it, 
just say so.'
'What?'

'I'm going to be in here another week,' I said. 'Instead of sending Audra up to 
Bangor, why
don't you take her to my place, Bill? Spend the week with her. Talk to her, 
even if she doesn't
talk back. Is she . . . is she continent?'

'No,' Bill said bleakly.

'Can you — I mean, would you — '

'Would  I  change  her?'  He  smiled,  and  it  was  such  a  painful  smile  
that  I  had  to  look  away
for  a  moment.  It  was  the  way  my  father  smiled  the  time  he  told  me 
 about  Butch  Bowers  and
the chickens. 'Yes. I think I could do that much.'

'I won't tell you to take it easy on yourself when you're obviously not 
prepared to do that,' I
said,  'but  please  remember  that  you  yourself  agreed  that  much  or  all 
 of  what's  happened  was
almost certainly ordained. That may include Audra's part in this.'

'I sh-should have kept my mouth shut about where I was g-going.'
Sometimes it's better to say nothing — so that's what I did.

'All right,' he said at last. 'If you really mean it — '

'I  mean  it.  They've  got  my  housekeys  down  at  the  Patient  Services  
Desk.  There's  a  couple
of Delmonico steaks in the freezer. Maybe that was ordained, too.'

'She's eating mostly soft foods and, uh, luh-liquids.'

'Well,'  I  said,  holding  onto  my  smile,  'maybe  there'll  be  cause  for  
a  celebration. There's a
pretty good bottle of wine on the top shelf in the pantry, too. Mondavi. 
Domestic, but good.'

He came over and gripped my hand. 'Thank you, Mike.'
'Any time, Big Bill.'

He let go of my hand. 'Richie flew back to California this morning.'
I nodded. 'Think you'll stay in touch?'

'M-Maybe,'  he  said.  'For  awhile,  anyway.  But  .  .  .  'He  looked  at  
me  levelly.  'It's  going  to
happen again, I think.'

'The forgetting?'

'Yes.  In  fact,  I  think  it's  already  started.  Just  little  things  so  
far.  Details.  But  I  think  it's
going to spread.'

'Maybe that's best.'

'Maybe.'  He  looked  out  the  window,  still  twiddling  his  can  of  diet  
soda,  almost  surely
thinking  about  his  wife,  so  wide-eyed  and  silent  and  beautiful  and  
plastic.  Catatonic.  The
sound of a door slamming shut and locked. He sighed. 'Maybe it is.'

'Ben? Beverly?'


He looked back at me and smiled a little. 'Ben's invited her to come back to 
Nebraska with
him, and she's agreed to go, at least for awhile. You know about her friend in 
Chicago?'

I  nodded.  Beverly  told  Ben  and  Ben  told  me  yesterday.  If  I  may  
understate  the  case
(grotesquely   understate   the   case),   Beverly's   later   description   of 
  her   wonderful   fantastic
husband,  Tom,  was  much  truer  than  her  original  one.  Wonderful  
fantastic  Tom  kept  Bev  in
emotional,  spiritual,  and  sometimes  physical  bondage  for  the  last  four 
 years  or  so.  Wonderful
fantastic Tom got here by beating the information out of Bev's only close woman 
friend.

'She  told  me  she's  going  to  fly  back  to  Chicago  the  week  after  
next  and  file  a  missing-
persons report on him. Tom, I mean.'

'Smart  enough,'  I  said.  'No  one's  ever  going  to  find  him  down  
there.'  Or  Eddie  either,   I
thought but did not say.

'No,  I  suppose  not,'  Bill  said.  'And  when  she  goes  back,  I'm  
betting  Ben  will  go  with  her.

And you know something else? Something really crazy?'
'What?'

'I don't think she really remembers what happened to Tom.'
I just stared at him.

'She's  forgotten  or  forgetting,'  Bill  said.  'And  I  can't  remember  
what  the   doorway  looked
like  anymore.  The  d-doorway  into  Its  place.  I  try  to  think  of  it 
and the craziest thing happens

—  I  get  this  ih-image  of  g-g-goats  walking  over  a  bridge.  From  that 
 story  "The  Three  Billy

Goats Gruff." Crazy, huh?'

'They'll  trace  Tom  Rogan  to  Derry  eventually,'  I  said.  'He'll  have  
left  a  paper  trail  a  mile
wide. Rent-a-car, plane tickets.'

'I'm  not  so  sure  of  that,'  Bill  said,  lighting  a  cigarette.  'I  
think  he  might  have  paid  cash  for
his plane ticket and given a phony name. Maybe bought a cheap car here or stole 
one.'

'Why?'

'Oh, come on,' Bill said. 'Do you think he came all this way to give her a 
spanking?'
Our eyes met for a long moment and then he stood up. 'Listen, Mike . . . '

'Too hip, gotta split,' I said. 'I can dig it.'

He  laughed  at  that,  laughed  hard,  and  when  he  had  sobered  he  said:  
Thanks  for  the  use  of
your place, Mikey.'

'I'm  not  going  to  swear  to  you  it'll  make  any  difference.  It  has  
no  therapeutic  qualities that

I'm aware of.'

'Well . . . I'll see you.' He did an odd thing then, odd but rather lovely. He 
kissed my cheek.
'God bless, Mike. I'll be around.'

Things may be okay, Bill,' I said. 'Don't give up hope. They may be okay.'

He smiled and nodded, but I think the same word was in both of our minds: 
Catatonic.

June 5th, 1985

Ben and Beverly came in today to say goodbye. They're not flying  — Ben's 
rented a great big
Cadillac  from  the  Hertz  people  and  they're  going  to  drive,  not  
hurrying.  There's something in
their  eyes  when  they  look  at  each  other,  and  I'd  bet  my  
pension-plan that if they're not making
it now, they will be by the time they get to Nebraska.

Beverly hugged me, told me to get well quickly, and then cried.

Ben  also  hugged me,  and  asked  for  the  third  or  fourth  time  if  I  
would  write.  I  told  him  I
would  indeed  write,  and  so  I  will  .  .  .  for  awhile,  at  least.  
Because  this  tune  it's  happening  to
me, as well.

I'm forgetting things.


As  Bill  said,  right  now  it's  only  small things,  details.  But  it  
feels  like  the  sort  of  thing  that's
going  to  spread.  It  could  be  that  in  a  month  or  a  year,  this  
notebook  will  be  all  I'll  have  to
remind  me  of  what  happened  here  in  Derry.  I  suppose  the  words  
themselves  might  begin  to
fade,  eventually  leaving  this  book  as  blank  as  when  I  first  picked  
it  up  in  the  school-supplies
department  at  Freese's.  That's  an  awful  thought  and  in  the  daytime  
it  seems  wildly  paranoid  .  .

. but, do you know, in the watches of the night it seems perfectly logical.

This  forgetting  .  .  .  the  prospect  fills  me  with  panic,  but  it  
also  offers  a  sneaking  sort  of
relief.  It  suggests  to  me  more  than  anything  else  that  this  time  
they  really  did  kill It; that there
is no need of a watchman to stand and wait for the cycle to begin again.

Dull panic, sneaking relief. It's the relief I'll embrace, I think, sneaking or 
not.
Bill called to say he and Audra had moved in. There is no change in her.

'I'll always remember you.' That's what Beverly told me just before she and Ben 
left.
I think I saw a different truth in her eyes.

June 6th, 1985

Interesting piece in the Derry  News today, on page one. The story was headed:  
STORM CAUSES
HENLEY  TO  GIVE  UP  AUDITORIUM  EXPANSION  PLANS.  The Henley in  question  
is  Tim  Henley a
multi-millionaire  developer  who  came  into  Derry  like  a  whirlwind  in  
the  late  sixties   —  it was
Henley           and   Zitner   who   organized   the   consortium  responsible 
 for  building  the  Derry  Mall
(which,  according  to  another  piece  on  page  one,  is  probably  going  to 
 be declared a total loss).
Tim  Henley  was  determined  to  see  Derry  grow.  There  was  a  
profit-motive,  yes  indeed,  but
there  was  more  to  it  than  that:  Henley  genuinely  wanted  to  see  it  
happen.  His  sudden  aban-
donment  of  the  auditorium  expansion  suggests  several  things  to  me.  
That  Henley  may  have
soured  on  Derry  is  only  the  most  obvious.  I  think  it's  also  
possible  that  he's  in  the  process  of
losing his shirt because of the destruction of the mall.

But  the  article  also  suggests  that  Henley  is  not  alone;  that  other  
investors  and  potential
investors  in  Derry's  future  may  be  rethinking  their  options.  Of  
course,  Al  Zitner  won't  have  to
bother;  God  retired  him  when  downtown  collapsed.  Of  the  others,  those 
 who  thought  like
Henley  are  now  facing  a  rather  difficult  problem  —  how  do  you  
rebuild  an  urban  area  which
is now at least fifty percent underwater?

I  think  that,  after  a  long  and  ghoulishly  vital  existence,  Derry  may 
 be  dying  .  .  .  like  a
nightshade whose time to bloom has come and gone.

Called Bill Denbrough late this afternoon. No change in Audra.

An   hour   ago   I   put   through   another   call,   this   one   to   
Richie   Tozier   in   California.   His
answering  machine  fielded  the  call,  with  Creedence  Clearwater  Revival  
music  playing  in  the
background.   Those   machines   always   fuck   up   my   timing   somehow.   
I   left   my   name   and
number, hesitated, and added that I hoped he was able to wear his contact 
lenses again. I was
about  to  hang  up  when  Richie  himself  picked  up  the  phone  and  said,  
'Mikey!  How  you  be?'
His voice was pleased and  warm . . . but there was an obvious bewilderment 
there as well. He
was wearing the verbal expression of a man who has been caught utterly 
flat-footed.

'Hello, Richie,' I said. 'I'm doing pretty well.'
'Good. How much pain you having?'

'Some.  It's  going  away.  The  itch  is  worse.  I'll  be  damn  glad  when  
they  finally  decide  to
unstrap my ribs. By the way, I liked the Creedence.'

Richie  laughed.  'Shit,  that  ain't  Creedence,  that's  "Rock  and  Roll  
Girls,"  from  Fogarty's
new album. Centerfield, it's called. You haven't heard any of it?'

'Huh-uh.'


'You got to get it, it's great. It's just like . . . ' He trailed off for a 
moment and then said, 'It's
just like the old days.'

'I'll  pick  it  up,'  I  said,  and  I  probably  will.  I  always  liked  
John Fogarty.  'Green  River'  was
my all-tune Creedence favorite, I guess. Get back home, he says. Just before 
the fade he says
it.

'What about Bill?'

'He and Audra are keeping house for me while I'm in here.'

'Good.   That's   good.'   He   paused   for   a   moment.  'You  want  to  
hear  something  fucking
bizarre, ole Mikey?'

'Sure,' I said. I had a pretty good idea what he was going to say.

'Well  .  .  .  I  was  sitting  here  in  my  study,  listening  to  some  of  
the  new  Cashbox  hot
prospects,  going  over  some  ad  copy, reading memos . . . there's about two 
mountains of stuff
backed  up,  and  I'm  looking  at  roughly  a  month  of  twenty-five-hour  
days.  So  I  had  the
answering  machine  turned  on,  but  with  the  volume  turned  up  so  I  
could  intercept  the  calls  I
wanted and just let  the  dimwits  talk  to  the  tape.  And  the  reason  I  
let  you  talk  to  the  tape  as
long as I did — '

' — was because at first you didn't have the slightest idea who I was.'
'Jesus, that's right! How did you know that?'

'Because we're forgetting again. All of us this time.'

'Mikey, are you sure?'

'What was Stan's last name?' I asked him.

There was silence on the other end of the line  —  a long silence. In it, 
faintly, I could hear a
woman  talking  in  Omaha  .  .  .  or  maybe  she  was  in  Ruthven,  Arizona, 
 or  Flint,  Michigan.  I
heard  her,  as  faint  as  a  space-traveller  leaving  the  solar  system  in 
 the  nosecone  of  a  burned-
out rocket, thank someone for the cookies.

Then Richie said, uncertainly: 'I think it was Underwood, but that isn't 
Jewish, it it?'
'It was Uris.'

'Uris!'   Richie   cried,   sounding   both   relieved   and   shaken.   
'Jesus,   I   hate   it  when  I  get
something  right  on  the  tip  of  my  tongue  and  can't  quite  pick  it  
off.  Someone  brings  out  a
Trivial  Pursuit  game,  I  say  "Excuse  me  but  I  think  the   diarrhea's  
coming  back  so  maybe  I'll
just go home, okay?" But you remember, anyhow, Mikey. Like before.'

'No. I looked it up in my address book.'

Another long silence. Then: 'You didn't remember?'
'Nope.'

'No shit?'

'No shit.'

'Then this tune it's really over,' he said, and the relief in his voice was 
unmistakable.
'Yes, I think so.'

That   long-distance   silence   fell   again   —   all  the  miles  between  
Maine  and  California.  I

believe  we  were  both  thinking  the  same  thing:  it  was  over,  yes,  and 
 in  six  weeks  or  six
months,  we  will  have  forgotten  all  about  each  other.  It's  over,  and  
all  it's  cost  us  is  our
friendship  and  Stan  and  Eddie's  lives.  I've  almost  forgotten  them,  
you  know  it?  Horrible  as  it
may  sound,  I  have  almost  forgotten  Stan  and  Eddie.  Was  it  asthma  
Eddie  had,  or  chronic
migraine?  I'll  be  damned  if  I  can  remember  for  sure,  although  I  
think  it  was  migraine.  I'll  ask
Bill. He'll know.

'Well,  you  say  hi  to  Bill  and  that  pretty  wife  of  his,'  Richie  
said  with  a  cheeriness  that
sounded canned.

'I  will,  Richie,'  I  said,  closing  my  eyes  and  rubbing  my  forehead.  
He  remembered  Bill's
wife was in Derry . . . but not her name, or what had happened to her.

'And if you're ever in LA, you got the number. We'll get together and mouth 
some chow.'


'Sure.'    I    felt    hot    tears    behind    my    eyes.    'And    if    
you    get    back    this    way,    the
same thing goes.'

'Mikey?'
'Right here.'

'I love you, man.'
'Same here.'

'Okay. Keep your thumb on it.'
'Beep-beep, Richie.'

He laughed. 'Yeah, yeah, yeah. Stick it in your ear, Mike. Ah say, in yo ear, 
boy.'

He hung up and so did I. Then I lay back on my pillows with my eyes shut and 
didn't open
them for a long time.

June 7th, 1985

Police  Chief  Andrew  Rademacher,  who  took  over  from  Chief  Borton  in  
the  late  sixties,  is
dead.  It  was  a  bizarre  accident,  one  I  can't  help  associating  with  
what  has  been  happening  in
Derry . . . what has just ended in Derry.

The  combination  police-station  —  courthouse  stands  on  the  edge  of  the 
 area that  fell  into
the  Canal,  and  while  it  didn't  go,  the  upheaval  —  or  the  flood  — 
must have caused structural
damage of which no one was aware.

Rademacher  was  working  late  in  his  office  last  night,  the  story  in  
the  paper  says,  as  he  has

every  night  since  the  storm  and  the  flood.  The  Police  Chiefs  office  
has  moved  from  the  third
to  the  fifth  floor  since  the  old  days,  to  just  below  an  attic  
where  all  sorts  of  records  and
useless  city  artifacts  are  stored.  One  of  those  artifacts  was  the  
tramp-chair  I  have  described
earlier  in  these  pages.  It  was  made  of  iron  and  weighed  better  than 
 four  hundred  pounds.  The
building  shipped  a  quantity  of  water  during  the  downpour  of  May  
31st,  and  that  must  have
weakened  the  attic  floor  (or  so  the  paper  says).  Whatever  the  
reason, the tramp -chair fell from
the    attic  directly  onto  Chief  Rademacher  as  he  sat  at  his  desk,  
reading  accident  reports.  He
was  killed  instantly.  Officer  Bruce  Andeen  rushed  in  and  found  him  
lying  on  the  ruins  of  his
shattered desk, his pen still in one hand.

Talked  to  Bill  on  the  phone  again.  Audra  is  taking  some  solid  food, 
 he  says,  but  otherwise
there is no change. I asked him if Eddie's big problem had been asthma or 
migraine.

'Asthma,' he said promptly. 'Don't you remember his aspirator?'

'Sure,' I said, and did. But only when Bill mentioned it.
'Mike?'

'Yeah?'

'What was his last name?'

I  looked  at  my  address  book  lying  on  the  nighttable,  but  didn't  
pick  it  up.  'I  don't  quite
remember.'

'It  was  like  Kerkorian,'  Bill  said,  sounding  distressed,  'but  that  
wasn't  quite  it.  You've  got
everything written down, though. Right?'

'Right,' I said.
'Thank God for that.'

'Have you had any ideas about Audra?'

'One,' he said, 'but it's so crazy I don't want to talk about it.'
'You sure?'

'Yeah.'
'All right.'

'Mike, it's scary, isn't it? Forgetting like this?'


'Yes,' I said. And it is.

June 8th, 1985

Raytheon,  which  had  been  scheduled  to  break  ground  on  its  Derry  
plant  in  July,  has  decided
at  the  last  minute  to  build  in  Waterville  instead.  The  editorial  on  
page  one  of  the  News
expresses dismay . . . and, if I read correctly between the lines, a little 
fright.

I  think  I  know  what  Bill's  idea  is.  He'll  have  to  act  quickly,  
before  the  last  of  the  magic

departs this place. If it hasn't already.

I  guess  what  I  thought  before  wasn't  so  paranoid  after  all.  The  
names  and  addresses  of  the
others  in  my  little  book  are  fading.  The  color  and  quality  of  the  
ink  combine  to  make  those
entries  look  as  if  they  were  written  fifty  or  seventy-five  years  
before  the  others  I've  jotted  in
there.  This  has  happened  in  the  last  four  or  five  days.  I'm  
convinced  that  by  September  their
names will be utterly gone.

I  suppose  I  could  preserve  them;  I  could  just  keep  copying  them.  
But  I'm  also  convinced
that  each  would  fade  in  its  turn,  and  that  very  soon  it  would  
become  an  exercise  in  futility  —
like writing  I  will  not  throw  spit -balls  in  class  five hundred times. 
I would be writing names
that meant nothing for a reason I didn't remember.

Let it go, let it go.

Bill, act quickly . . . but be careful!

June 9th, 1985

Woke  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  from  a  terrible  nightmare  I  
couldn't  remember,  got
panicky,  couldn't  breathe.  Reached  for  the  call-button  and  then  
couldn't  use  it.  Had  a  terrible
vision  of  Mark  Lamonica  answering  the  bell  with  a  hypo  .  .  .  or  
Henry  Bowers  with  his
switchblade.

I  grabbed  my  address  book  and  called  Ben  Hanscom  in  Nebraska  .  .  . 
 the  address  and
number  have  faded  still  more,  but  they  are  still  legible.  No  go,  
Joe.  Got  a  recorded  phone-
company voice telling me service to that number has been cancelled.

Was Ben fat, or did he have something like a club foot?
Lay awake until dawn.

June 10th, 1985

They tell me I can go home tomorrow.

I  called  Bill  and  told  him  that   —  I  suppose  I  wanted  to  warn  him 
 that  his  time  is  getting
shorter  all  the  time.  Bill  is  the  only  one  I  remember  clearly  and  
I'm  convinced  that  I'm  the
only one he remembers clearly. Because we are both still here in Derry, I 
suppose.

'All right,' he said. 'By tomorrow we'll be out of your hair.'
'You still got your idea?'

'Yeah. Looks like it's time to try it.'
'Be careful.'

He laughed and said something I both do and don't understand: 'You can't  be  
c-c-careful on
a skuh-hateboard, man.'

'How will I know how it turned out, Bill?'

'You'll know,' he said, and hung up.


My  heart's  with  you,  Bill,  no  matter  how  it  turns  out.  My  heart  is 
 with  all  of  them,  and  I
think that, even if we forget each other, we'll remember in our dreams.

I'm almost  done with this  diary now  —  and I suppose a diary is all that it 
will ever be, and
that  the  story  of  Derry's  old  scandals  and  eccentricities  has  no  
place  outside  these  pages.
That's  fine  with  me;  I  think  that,  when  they  let  me  out  of  here  
tomorrow,  it  might  finally  be
time  to  start  thinking  about  some  sort  of  new  life  .  .  .  although  
just  what  that  might  be  is
unclear to me.

I loved you guys, you know.
I loved you so much.


'I knew the bride when she used to do the Pony,
I knew the bride when she used to do the Stroll.
I knew the bride when she used to wanna party,
I knew the bride when she used to rock and roll.'

— Nick Lowe

'You can't be careful on a skateboard man'

— some kid


1

Noon of a summer day.

Bill  stood  naked  in  Mike  Hanlon's  bedroom,  looking  at  his  lean  body  
in  the  mirror  on  the
door.  His  bald  head  gleamed  in  the  light  which  fell  through  the  
window  and  cast  his  shadow
along  the  floor  and  up  the  wall.  His  chest  was  hairless,  his  thighs 
 and  shanks  skinny  but
overlaid  with  ropes  of  muscle.  Still,  he thought, it's an adult's body we 
got here, no question
about that. There's the pot belly that comes with a few too many good steaks, a 
few too many
bottles  of  Kirin  beer,  a  few  too  many  poolside  lunches  where  you  
had  the  Reuben  or  the
French dip instead of the diet plate. Your seat's dropped, too, Bill old buddy. 
You can still
serve an ace if you're not too hung over and if your eye's in, but you can't 
hustle after the old
Dunlop the way you could when you were seventeen. You got love handles and your 
balls are
starting  to  get  that  middle-aged dangly look. There's lines on your face 
that weren't there
when  you  were  seventeen  .  .  .  Hell,  they  weren't  there  on  your  
first author photo, the one
where you tried so hard to look as if you knew something . . . anything. You're 
too old for
what you've got in mind, Billy-boy. You'll kill both of you.

He put on his underpants.

If we'd believed that, we never could have . . . have done whatever it was we 
did.

Because  he  didn't  really  remember  what  it  was  they  had  done,  or  
what  had  happened  to
turn  Audra  into  a  catatonic  wreck.  He  only  knew  what  he  was  
supposed  to  do  now,  and  he
knew  that  if  he  didn't  do  it   now,  he  would  forget  that,  too.  
Audra  was  sitting  downstairs  in
Mike's  easy  chair,  her  hair  hanging  lankly  to  her  shoulders,  staring  
with  rapt  attention  at  the
TV, which was currently showing  Dialing  for  Dollars.  She didn't speak and 
would only move
if you led her.

This is different. You're just too old, man. Believe it.
I won't.

Then die here in Derry. Big fucking deal.

He  put  on  athletic  socks,  the  one  pair  of  jeans  he  had  brought,  
the  tank  top  he'd  bought  at
the  Shirt  Shack  in  Bangor  the  day  before.  The tank was bright orange. 
Across the front it said
WHERE  THE  HELL  IS  DERRY, MAINE? He sat down on Mike's bed  — the one he had 
shared for
the  last  week  of  nights  with  his  warm  but  corpse-like wife  —  and  
put  on  his  sneakers  .  .  .  a
pair of Keds, which he had also bought yesterday in Bangor.

He  stood  up  and  looked  at  himself  in  the  mirror  again.  He  saw  a  
man  pressing  middle  age
dressed up in a kid's clothes.

You look ludicrous.

What kid doesn't?

You're no kid. Give this up!

'Fuck, let's rock and roll a little,' Bill said softly, and left the room.

2

In the dreams he will have in later years, he is always leaving Derry alone, at 
sunset. The
town is deserted; everyone has left. The Theological Seminary and the Victorian 
houses on
West Broadway brood black against a lurid sky, every summer sunset you ever saw 
rolled up
into one.

He  can  hear  his  footfalls  echoing  back  as  they  rap  along  the  
concrete.  The  only  other
sound is water rushing hollowly through the stormdrains


3

He  rolled  Silver  out  into  the  driveway,  put  him  on  the  kickstand,  
and  checked  the  tires  again.
The front one was okay but the back one felt a little mushy. He got the bike 
pump that Mike
had  bought  and  firmed  it  up.  When  he  put  the  pump  back,  he  checked 
 the  playing  cards and
the   clothespins.   The   bike's   wheels   still   made   those   exciting   
machine-gun   sounds   Bill
remembered from his boyhood. Good deal.

You've gone crazy.
Maybe. We'll see.

He  went  back  into  Mike's  garage  again,  got  the  3-in-l,  and  oiled  
the  chain  and sprocket.
Then  he  stood  up,  looked  at  Silver,  and  gave  the  bulb  of  the  
oogah-horn a light, experimental
squeeze. It sounded good. He nodded and went into the house.

4

and he sees all those places again, intact, as they were then: the hulking 
brick fort of Derry
Elementary, the Kissing Bridge with its complex intaglio of initials, 
high-school sweethearts
ready to crack the world open with their passion who had grown up to become 
insurance
agents and car salesmen and waitresses and beauticians; he  sees the statue of 
Paul Bunyan
against  that  bleeding  sunset  sky  and  the  leaning  white  fence  which  
ran  along  the  Kansas
Street sidewalk at the edge of the Barrens. He sees them as they were, as they 
always will be
in some part of his mind . . . and his heart breaks with love and honor.

Leaving, leaving Derry,  he  thinks.  We are leaving Derry, and if this was a 
story it would be
the  last  half-dozen  pages  or  so;  get  ready  to  put  this  one  up  on  
the  shelf  and  forget  it.  The
sun's  going  down  and  there's  no  sound but my footfalls and the water in 
the drains. This is the
time of

5

Dialing   for    Dollars    had   given   way   to   Wheel    of    Fortune.   
Audra   sat   passively
in    front    of    it,    her    eyes    never    leaving    the    set.    
Her    demeanor    did    not    change
when Bill snapped the TV off.

'Audra,' he said, going to her and taking her hand. 'Come on.'

She  didn't  move.  Her  hand  lay  in  his,  warm  wax.  Bill  took  her  
other  hand  from  the  arm  of
Mike's  chair  and  pulled  her  to  her  feet.  He  had  dressed  her  that  
morning  much  as  he  had
dressed himself  —  she  was  wearing  Levis  and  a  blue  shell  top.  She  
would  have  looked  quite
lovely if not for her wide-eyed vacant stare.

'Cuh-come  on,'  he  said  again,  and  led  her  through  the  door,  into  
Mike's  kitchen  and,
eventually,  outside.  She  came  willingly  enough  .  .  .  although  she  
would  have  plunged  off  the
back  porch  stoop  and  gone  sprawling  in  the  dirt  if  Bill  had  not  
put  an  arm  around  her  waist
and guided her down the steps.

He  led  her  over  to  where  Silver  stood  heeled  over  on  his  kick-stand 
 in  the bright summer
noonlight. Audra stood beside the bike, looking serenely at the side of Mike's 
garage.

'Get on, Audra.'

She  didn't  move.  Patiently,  Bill  worked  at  getting  her  to  swing  one  
of  her  long  legs  over
the  carrier  mounted  on  Silver's  back  fender.  At  last  she  stood  there 
 with  the  package  carrier
between  her  legs,  not  quite  touching  her  crotch.  Bill  pressed  his  
hand  lightly  to  the  top  of  her
head and Audra sat down.


He swung onto Silver's saddle and put up the kickstand with his heel. He  
prepared to reach
behind  him  for  Audra's  hands  and  draw  them  around  his  middle,  but  
before  he  could  do  it
they crept around him of their own accord, like small dazed mice.

He looked down at them, his heart beating faster, seeming to pump in his throat 
 as much as
in his chest. It was the first independent action Audra had taken all week, so 
far as he knew . .

. the first independent action she had taken since It happened . . . whatever 
It had been.

'Audra?'

There was no answer. He tried to crane  his neck around and see her but 
couldn't quite make
it.  There  were  only  her  hands  around  his  waist,  the  nails  showing  
the  last  chips  of  a  red  polish
that had been put on by a bright, lively, talented young woman in a small 
English town.

'We're  going  for  a  ride,'  Bill  said,  and  he  began  to  roll  Silver  
forward  toward  Palmer  Lane,
listening to the gravel crunch under the tires. 'I want you to hold on, Audra. 
I think . . . I think
I may go sort of f-f-fast.'

If I don't lose my guts.

He  thought  of  the  kid  he  had  met  earlier  during  his  stay  in  Derry, 
 when  It  had still been
happening. You can't be careful on a skateboard, the kid had said.

Truer words were never spoken, kid.

'Audra? You ready?'

No  answer.  Had  her  hands  tightened  the  tiniest  bit across his middle? 
Probably just wishful
thinking.

He  reached  the  end  of  the  driveway  and  looked  right.  Palmer  Lane  
ran  straight  to  Upper
Main  Street,  where  a  left  turn  would  take  him  onto  the  hill  running 
 downtown.  Downhill.

Picking up speed. He felt a tremor of fear at the image, and a disquieting 
thought

(old bones break easy, Billy-boy)

ran through his mind almost too quickly to read and was gone. But . . .

But it wasn't all disquiet, was it? No. It was desire as well . . . the feeling 
he'd had when he
saw the kid walking along with the skateboard under his arm. The desire to go 
fast, to feel the
wind  race  past  you  without  knowing  if  you  were  racing  toward  or  
running  away  from,  to  just
go. To fly.

Disquiet  and  desire.  All  the  difference  between  world  and  want  —  the 
difference between
being  an  adult  who  counted  the  cost  and  a  child  who  just  got  on  
it  and  went,  for  instance.  All
the  world  between.  Yet  not  that  much  difference  at  all.  Bedfellows,  
really.  The  way  you  felt
when  the  roller-coaster  car  approached  the  top  of  the  first  steep  
grade,  where  the  ride   really
begins.

Disquiet  and  desire.  What  you  want  and  what  you're  scared  to  try  
for.  Where  you've  been
and  where  you  want  to  go.  Something  in  a  rock-and-roll  song  about  
wanting  the girl, the car,
the place to stand and be. Oh please God can you dig it.

Bill  closed  his  eyes  for  a  moment,  feeling  the  soft  dead  weight  of  
his  wife  behind  him,
feeling the hill somewhere ahead of him, feeling his own heart inside him.

Be brave, be true, stand.

He began to push Silver forward again. 'You want to rock and roll a little, 
Audra?'
No answer. But that was all right. He was ready.

'Hold on, then.'

He  began  to  pedal.  It  was  hard  going  at  first.  Silver  wobbled  
alarmingly  back  and  forth,
Audra's  weight  adding  to  the  imbalance  .  .  .  yet  she  must  be  doing 
 some  balancing,  even
unconsciously,   or   they   would   have   crashed   right   away.   Bill   
stood   on   the   pedals,   hands
squeezing  the  handlegrips  with  maniacal  tightness,  his  head  turned  
skyward,  his  eyes  slits,  the
cords on his neck standing out.

Gonna fall splat right here in the street, split her skull and mine —

(no you ain't go for it Bill go for it go for the son of a bitch)


He  stood  on  the  pedals,  revolving  them,  feeling  every  cigarette  he'd  
smoked  over  the  last
twenty  years  in  his  elevated  blood-pressure  and  the  race  of  his  
heart.  Fuck  that,  too!   he
thought, and the rush of crazy exhilaration made him grin.

The  playing  cards,  which  had  been  firing  isolated  shots,  now  began  
to  click-clock faster.
They  were  new,  nice  new  Bikes,  and  they  made  a  good  loud  sound.  
Bill  felt  the  first  touch  of
breeze  on  his  bald  pate,  and  his  grin  widened.  I  made that breeze,  
he thought.  I made it by
pumping these damn pedals.

The  STOP  sign at the end of the lane was coming up. Bill began to brake . . . 
and then (his
grin still widening, showing more and more of his teeth) he began to pump 
again.

Ignoring  the  STOP   sign,  Bill  Denbrough  swept  to  the  left,  onto  
Upper  Main  Street  above
Bassey  Park.  Again  Audra's  weight  fooled  him  and  they  almost  
overbalanced  and  crashed.
The  bike  wavered,  wobbled,  then  righted  itself.  That  breeze  was  
stronger  now,  cooling  the
sweat  on  his  forehead,  evaporating  it,  rushing  past  his  ears  with  a  
low  intoxicating sound that
was  a  little  like  the  sound  of  the  ocean  in  a  conch  shell  but  was 
 really  like  nothing  else  on
earth.  Bill  supposed  it  was  a  sound  the  kid  with  the  skateboard  was 
 familiar  with.  But it's a
sound you'll fall out of touch with, kid, he thought. Things have a way of 
changing. It's a dirty
trick, so be prepared for it.

Pedaling  faster  now,  finding  a  surer  balance  in  speed.  The  ruins  of  
Paul  Bunyan  on  the  left,
like a fallen colossus. Bill shouted: 'Hi-yo Silver, AWAYYYYY!'

Audra's  hands  tightened  around  his  middle;  he  felt  her  stir  against  
his  back.  But  there  was
no  urge  to  turn  and  try  to  see  her  now  .  .  .  no  urge,  no  need.  
He  pedaled  faster,  laughing  out
loud,  a  tall  skinny  bald  man  on  a  bike  crouched  over  the  handlebars 
 to  lessen  the  wind-
resistance. People turned to look as he raced alongside Bassey Park.

Now  Upper  Main  Street  began  to  incline  toward  the  caved-in  center  of 
 town  at  a  steeper
angle,  and  a  voice  inside  whispered  to  him  that  if  he  didn't  brake  
soon  he  would  find  himself
unable;  he  would  simply  go  sweeping  into  the  sunken  remains  of  the  
three-way  intersection
like    a bat out of hell and kill both of them.

Instead  of  braking  he  began  to  pedal  again,  urging  the  bike  to  go  
even  faster.  Now  he  was
flying   down   Main   Street  Hill  and  he  could  see  the  white-and-orange 
 crash  barriers,  the
smudgepots  with  their  smoky  Halloween  flames  marking  the  edge  of  the  
cave-in,  he  could
see  the  tops  of  buildings  which  jutted  out  of  the  streets  like  the  
figments  of  a  madman's
imagination.

'Hi-yo  Silver,  AWAYYYYYYY!'  Bill  Denbrough  cried  deliriously,  and  
rushed  down  the  hill
toward whatever there would be, aware for one last time of Derry as his place, 
aware most of
all that he was alive under a real sky, and that all was desire, desire, 
desire.

He raced down the hill on Silver: he raced to beat the devil.

6

leaving.

So you leave, and there is an urge to look back, to look back just once as the 
sunset fades,
to see that severe New England skyline one final time — the spires, the 
Standpipe, Paul with
his axe slung over his shoulder. But it is perhaps not such a good idea to look 
back — all the
stories say so. Look what happened to Lot's wife. Best not to look back. Best 
to believe there
will be happily ever afters all the way around — and so there may be; who is to 
say there will
not be such endings? Not all boats which sail away into darkness never find the 
sun again, or
the hand of another child; if life teaches anything at all, it teaches that 
there are so many
happy endings  that the man who believes there is no God needs his rationality 
called into
serious question.


You leave and you leave quick when the sun starts to go down, he thinks in this 
dream.
That's what you do. And if you spare a last thought, maybe it's ghosts  you 
wonder about . . .
the ghosts of children standing in the water at sunset, standing in a circle, 
standing with their
hands joined together, their faces young, sure, but tough . . . tough enough, 
anyway, to give
birth to the people they will become, tough enough to understand, maybe, that 
the people they
will become must necessarily birth the people they were before they can get on 
with trying to
understand simple mortality. The circle closes, the wheel rolls, and that's all 
there is.

You don't have to look back to see those children; part of your mind will see 
them forever,
live with them forever, love with them forever. They are not necessarily the 
best part of you,
but they were once the repository of all you could become.

Children I love you. I love you so much.

So drive away quick, drive away while the last of the light slips away, drive 
away from
Derry, from memory . . . but not from desire. That stays, the bright cameo of 
all we were and
all we believed as children, all that shone in our  eyes even when we were lost 
and the wind
blew in the night.

Drive away and try to keep smiling. Get a little rock and roll on the radio and 
go toward
all the life there is with all the courage you can find and all the belief you 
can muster. Be
true, be brave, stand.

All the rest is darkness.

7

'Hey!'

'Hey mister, you — '
' — lookout!'

'Damn fool's gonna — '

Words  whipped  by  in  the  slipstream,  as  meaningless  as  pennants  in  a  
breeze  or  untethered
balloons.  Here  came  the  crash  barriers;  he  could  smell  the  sooty  
aroma  of  kerosene  from  the
smudgepots.  He  saw  the  yawning  darkness  where  the  street  had  been,  
heard  sullen  water
rushing down there in the tangled darkness, and laughed at the sound.

He  dragged  Silver  hard  left,  so  close  ot   the  crash  barriers  now  
that  the  leg  of  his  jeans

actually  whispered  along  one  of  them.  Silver's  wheels  were  less  than  
three  inches  from  the
place  where  the  tar  ended  in  empty  space,  and  he  was  running  out  
of  maneuvering  room.  Up
ahead  the  water  had  eroded  all  of  the  street  and  half  the  sidewalk  
in  front  of  Cash's  Jewelry
Store. Barriers closed off what was left of the sidewalk; it had been severely 
undercut.

'Bill?'  It  was  Audra's  voice,  dazed  and  a  little  thick.  She  sounded  
as  if  she  had  just
awakened from a deep sleep. 'Bill, where are we? What are we doing?'

'Hi  yo,  Silver!'  Bill  shouted,  pointing  the  rushing  gantry  that  was  
Silver  directly  at  the  crash

barrier   jutting   out   at   right   angles   to   the   empty   Cash   show  
 window.   'HI   YO   SILVER
AWAYYYYY!'

Silver   struck   the   barrier   at   better   than   forty   miles   an   
hour   and   it   went   flying,   the
centerboard   in   one   direction,   the   A-shaped  supports  in  two  
others.  Audra  cried  out  and
squeezed  Bill  so  tightly  that  he  lost  his  breath.  Up  and  down  Main  
Street,  Canal   Street, and
Kansas Street, people stood in doorways and on sidewalks, watching.

Silver  shot  out  onto  the  bridge  of  undercut  sidewalk.  Bill  felt  his  
left  hip  and  knee  chip  the
side  of  the  jewelry  store.  He  felt  Silver's  rear  wheel  sag  suddenly  
and  understood  that  the
sidewalk was falling in behind them —

—  and  then  Silver's  forward  motion  carried  them  back  onto  solid  
roadway.  Bill  swerved  to
avoid  an  overturned  trashcan  and  barrelled  out  into  the  street  again. 
 Brakes  squealed.  He  saw


the  grille  of  a  big  truck  approaching  and  still  couldn't  seem  to  
stop  laughing.  He  ran  through
the  space  the  heavy  truck  wound  up  occupying  a  full  second  before  
it  got  there.  Shit,  time  to
spare!

Yelling,   tears   squirting   from   his   eyes,   Bill   blew   Silver's   
oogah-horn,   listening   to   each
hoarse bray embed itself in the day's bright light.

'Bill,  you're  going  to  kill  us  both!'  Audra  cried  out,  and  although  
there  was  terror  in  her

voice, she was also laughing.

Bill  heeled  Silver  over,  and  this  time  he  felt  Audra  leaning  with  
him,  making  die  bike
easier  to  control,  helping  to  make  the  two  of  them  exist  with  it,  
at  least  for  this  small  compact
moment of time, as three living things.

'Do you think so?' he shouted back.

'I  know  so!'  she  cried,  and  then  grabbed  his crotch, where there was a 
huge and cheerful
erection. 'But don't stop!'

He  had  nothing  to  say  about  it,  however.  Silver's  speed  was  bleeding 
 away  on  Up-Mile

Hill,  the  heavy  roar  of  the  playing  cards  becoming  single  gunshots  
again.  Bill  stopped  and
turned to her. She was pale, wide-eyed, obviously scared and confused . . . but 
awake, aware,
and laughing.

'Audra,'  he  said,  laughing  with  her.  He  helped  her  off  Silver,  
leaned  the  bike  against  a
handy  brick  wall,  and  embraced  her.  He  kissed  her  forehead, her eyes, 
her cheeks, her mouth,
her neck, her breasts.

She hugged him while he did it.

'Bill,  what's  been  happening?  I  remember  getting  off  the  plane  at  
Bangor,  and  I  can't
remember a thing after that. Are you all right?'

'Yes.'

'Am I?'

'Yes. Now.'

She pushed him away so she could look at him. 'Bill, are you still stuttering?'
'No,' Bill said, and kissed her. 'My stutter is gone.'

'For good?'

'Yes,' he said. 'I think this time it's gone for good.'
'Did you say something about rock and roll?'

'I don't know. Did I?'
'I love you,' she said.

He nodded and smiled. When he smiled he looked very young, bald head or not. 'I 
love you

too,' he said. 'And what else counts?'

8

He awakens from this dream unable  to remember exactly what it was, or much at 
all beyond
the simple fact that he has dreamed about being a child again. He touches his 
wife's smooth
back as she sleeps her warm sleep and dreams her own dreams; he thinks that it 
is good to be
a child, but it is also good to be grownup and able to consider the mystery of 
childhood . . .
its  beliefs  and  desires.  I will write about all of this one day,  he 
thinks, and knows it's just a
dawn thought, an after-dreaming thought. But it's nice to think so for awhile 
in the morning's
clean silence, to think that childhood has its own sweet secrets and confirms 
mortality, and
that mortality defines all courage and love. To think that what has looked 
forward must also
look back, and that each life makes its own imitation of immortality: a wheel.

Or so Bill Denbrough sometimes thinks on those early mornings after dreaming, 
when he
almost remembers his childhood, and the friends with whom he shared it.


The book was begun in Bangor, Maine,
on September 9th, 1981,

and completed in Bangor, Maine,
on December 28th, 1985.


